A few years ago, here at TED, Peter Sw ill man asked a design competition called the marshmallow.
The idea is pretty simple. Four teams have to build the greatest possible - free structure with 20 spaghetti, about 1 tape, about 1 meter a thread and build a marshmallow.
The marshmallow must be on top.
And even though it really seems simple, it's really hard to work because it' s hard to work very fast.
And so I thought this is an interesting idea, and I've turned it into a design workshop.
It was a huge success.
Since then, I've done about 70 workshops worldwide with students, developers and architects, even with CT oscill ators, and there' s something about this task that allows deep impressions to collaborate in nature, and I want to share some of them with you.
Normally most people start by forcing themselves to orient themselves against the task.
They talk about it, they're thinking about what it' s going to look like, they're trans cribed to power.
And then you invest a little bit of time in planning and organization, and you sketch spaghetti.
They invest a lot of their time in the process of building increasing structures.
And finally, before they don't have time anymore, someone takes the marshmallow and they sit down the tip, step back and they' ll admire them and go "T da," Oh! admire them.
But then, almost always, it's happening that the ta da, "Ooh" is made by a "ooh ," because the weight of the marshm allows for the fittest that the whole thing will fall down and fall.
There's a series of people who have much more "ooh - oh moments than others, and under the worst, new search engine is.
They lie, they lie, they're confused, and they really can make stupid things.
And of course, there are teams who have much more "ta" -- and under the best, new graduates of children are all.
And this is pretty amazing.
And as Peter told us, they don't only produce the highest towers, but also the most interesting structures of all.
What they might ask is, how does that come? Why? What about those?
And Peter tells us, "None of the children's children' s head of spaghetti ."
They don't invest time in power fights.
But there's another reason.
And that's that B W L students were trained to find a real plan, okay!
And then he did.
What happens when they put the marshmallow on the top, they don't have time and what happens?
It's a crisis.
Sounds familiar, what?
What kindergarten kids do differently is they start building prototypes and build prototypes, successful prototypes, always with the marshmallow, so they have multiple times the possibility that they have multiple - engineered prototypes to repair them.
Buildings are identified this kind of collaboration as the core of a quantum record.
And with every attempt, the children will get immediate feedback, which doesn't work.
So the performance is to work with prototypes, to make a lot of the key, but let's see how different teams operate.
The average of most people is about 50 centimeters, B W L students, half of them, lawyers do something more, but not much, kindergarten kids are better than adults.
Who is the most successful?
Architects and engineers, fortunately.
One meter is the alternate thing I've seen.
And why? Because they understand triangles and self - reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures.
CEOs are above average, but here's interesting.
And if you're in arms directors on the team, they' re significantly better.
It's incredible. You can see, and this team will win ."
You can predict the prediction. Why is that?
Because they have special skills of the process of self - assembly.
They conduct the process, they understand it.
And that team that conveniently control and pay attention to work, the performance of the team is significantly better.
Special skills and process skills and their combination of success.
If you have 10 teams who are typical of business, you get about six who are stable structures.
I was trying something interesting.
I thought we're going to bring the poker and in the same way.
So I offered a $1, 500 prize to software for the winner.
What do you think about this design student?
What was the result?
This is what happened. Not a team had a stable structure.
If anyone who had built a two - inch construction, he would have worn the price back home.
So isn't it interesting that high competition have a strong effect?
We repeated this exercise with the same students.
What do you think happened?
Now, you've got the advantage of the prototype.
So it was like the same, bad team of one under the best.
They produced the highest construction in the least time.
So there's a deep - reaching lessons for us to succeed about nature' s performance and success.
You might ask, why would someone actually invest a time to create a marshmallow developer?
The reason is that I'm helping digital tools and processes to help teams create cars and video games and "visualization ."
And what the marshmallow are doing is trying to identify them with hidden assumptions.
Because frankly, every project has its own marshmallow.
The challenge is to provide shared experience with common language or reason to build the right prototype.
And this is the value of this experience, this simple exercise.
And those of you who are interested in can visit mar ils of all. com bs.
It's a blog where you see how to build the marshmallow.
There's a step - by - step instructions.
They find crazy examples from all over the world, like people tweak the system and refine it.
There are also world records.
And the bas al lesson, I think, is actually a construction of sports.
It requires that we all focus on our senses, and that we use our thinking optimal, how our emotions and our Tunis, in the challenge that lies ahead of us.
And sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it needs to take us from a "Ooh" to a ta "moment.
And that can make a big difference.
Thank you.
So let's pretend we have a machine.
A big machine, a cool machine, TED - like machine, and this is a time machine.
And everybody in this room has to be in.
And you can go to the past, you can go to the future; you can't stay in here and now.
And I wonder what you would choose because I asked my friends at the last time, and they wanted to go all the time.
I don't know. They wanted to go back in time before there were cars or Twitter or America to be a superstar.
I don't know.
I'm convinced you' re sort of drawn to the nostalgia, a wish.
And I understand that.
I'm not part of this group, I have to say.
I don't want to be in the past, and that' s not because I'm a adventure.
It's because opportunities are not going back on this planet, they go forward.
So I want to go into this machine, and I want to go into the future.
This is the greatest time that we ever had on this planet, no matter what scale you scale: health, wealth, mobility, opportunities, declining disease.
There was never been a time like this.
My great grandparents all died when they were 60.
My grandparents kept on this number at 70.
My parents are 80 on the heel.
So that's where a better nine is at the beginning of my death row.
But it's not even about people like us, because this is a bigger thing than that.
A child born today in New Delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world.
Think about it. This is an incredible fact.
And why is that?
smallpox. The smallpox vaccination has killed billions of people on this planet.
They've shaped the demographics of the Earth in a way that no war has ever done.
They're gone. They' ve gone.
We have turned them into. We're patch ed.
In the rich world, diseases exist that millions of us have threatened by one generation ago, hardly yet.
Di artery, skirts, skirts, kids...
Anyone know what this is?
vaccines, modern medicine, our ability to feed billions of people, that's the successes of science.
And from my perspective, the scientific method is to try and try and try and figure out if it doesn't do it, one of the greatest achievements of humankind.
So that's the good news.
Unfortunately, this is all good news, because there are a few other problems, and they've been mentioned.
And one of them is that despite all of our achievements, a billion people on the planet every day are hungry to bed every day.
This number goes up, and it's going to go up very fast, and it' s embarrassing.
And not only that, we've used our imagination to ravaged this world and thoroughly trash.
drinking water, land rainforests, oil, gas: They disappear, and they soon, and if we don't go out of this mess, we disappear.
So the question is, can we do that? I think.
I think it's clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without the country that they live in, rape.
I think we can power this world with energy that they don't even ruin at the same time.
I really think that's true, and no, that' s not a wish.
But this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keep me awake at night, and we've never needed scientific progress as well as we now, never.
And we've never been able to put it properly into reasonable, as we can today.
We're at the threshold of amazing events, amazing events on many fields, and yet I really think that we' d have to go back hundreds of 300 years before the Enlightenment, to find a time where we fought progress, where we have more violent conversations, more than we've seen.
People wrap themselves in their faith, and that's so tight that you can' t free them.
It's not even the truth to free it.
And listen, everybody has a right to his opinion, even a right to his opinion.
But do you know where you don't have a right?
They don't have a right to their own facts, they' re sorry.
And I took a while to find out what it was.
About a decade ago, I wrote an article about vaccines for "The New Yorker ," a little article.
And I was amazed to hit resistance against the resistance of what's the most effective practice in health care in the history of mankind.
I didn't know what to do, so I just did whatever I do, I wrote an article and went on.
And soon after that, I wrote an article about engineered food.
The same thing, just bigger.
People were playing crazy.
So I also wrote an article about it, and I couldn't understand why people thought this would be "Frankenstein food ," why they believed that molecules were throwing a certain kind of random around an area of nature.
But you know, I do what I do. I wrote the article, I kept going on.
I mean, I'm a journalist.
We type, we pass a rich one, we eat, that's okay.
But this article was worried about me, and I couldn't find out why, and finally, I found it out.
And this is because this fan nut, the nerdy, who made me crazy even though.
These were careful people, educated people, decent people.
They were just like the people in this room.
And that made me mess up like this.
But then I thought, well, you know what, let's be honest.
We've gotten to a point where we don' t have the same relationship to progress as early.
We talk about seed y - chee ky.
We're talking ironic about these little quotes sign about it: "progress ."
Okay, so there's reasons for this, and I think we know what reasons are.
We have lost faith in institutions, in authority, and sometimes in science, we have lost and there's no reason why it shouldn' t be that way.
You can just call a few names, and people will understand.
Chernobyl, B op shop, the Challenger, V x, V ax, weapons of mass destruction, the U. S. presidential election.
I mean, you know, you can choose your own list.
There are questions and problems with the people we believed they would always be correct, so be skeptical.
Ask questions, ask evidence, ask evidence, do evidence.
Don't take anything for granted.
But now it's: If you get evidence, you have to adopt this evidence, and we' re not good at it.
And I can tell you that we're living in an epidemic of fear like I' ve never seen it, and hopefully I'll never see again.
About 12 years ago, a story was published, a terrible story that was associated with autism, M ump, and B ump, and Roman vaccine was connected.
Very frightening.
And lots of studies have been done to see if this was true.
And lots of studies should be done, and this is a serious business.
The data came in.
The data came in from the United States, from England, from Sweden, from Canada, and they were all same, no correlation, no connection, no connection, no connection.
It doesn't make a difference. It doesn' t make a difference, because we believe in anecdotes, we believe what we see what makes us feel really good.
We don't think about a bunch of documents from a government - born data, and I understand that, I think we all do.
But do you know what?
And the result of this was catastrophic.
catastrophic because of this fact: America is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccine yields decline.
This is massive, and we should be ashamed.
It's horrible.
What happened is that we could do this.
Well, I understand that. I do.
Because here's someone measles?
Did one single person ever see someone dying of measles?
Pass ed not very often.
Pass ed in this country at all, but 160, 000 times in the world last year.
These are many deaths by measles, 20 per hour.
But because this hasn't happened here, we can suppress it in, and people like Jenny can walk around and write messages from anxiety and illiteracy and contentious by platforms like Oprah and Larry King Live.
And they can do that because they don't link and correlation.
They don't understand that these things seem to be the same, but almost never the same thing.
And that's something we need to learn, and it' s very fast.
This guy was a hero, Jonas Sal k.
He freed us from one of the worst hostage failures of humanity.
Not fear, no qu ill, children polio, disappeared.
The guy in the middle doesn't quite do that.
He's called Paul Off it.
He just developed a few other people a red virus.
It can save the lives of 400, 500, 000 children a year in developing countries.
Pretty good, isn't it?
Well, that's good, except that Paul runs around and talks about vaccines, and they say how valuable they are, and that people should just stop moan.
And that's what he says.
So Paul is a terrorist.
If Paul speaks in a public check, he can't tell the armed guards.
He gets calls home because people like to tell him they know where his kids go to school.
And why? Because Paul has made a vaccine.
I don't need to say that, but vaccines are essential to longevity.
If you take them further, the diseases return, horrible diseases, and this is happening right now.
We now have measles.
And that gets worse, and pretty soon children will die again, because that's just a question of numbers.
And they're not just going to die of measles.
What about polio? Let's take that. Why not?
A class on me wrote a couple of weeks ago, and I said she's a little too flat.
Nobody ever told that.
She wouldn't vaccinate her child against polio. No way.
Fine.
Why? Because we don't have kids polio. And you know what?
We didn't have polio yesterday in this country yesterday.
Today, I don't know, maybe someone in Lagos has a plane in Lagos, and it' s just flying to Los Angeles, at the moment, he's about Ohio.
And in a few hours, he lands, he's fighting a car, and he' s coming to Long Beach, and he's going to visit one of these amazing TED night tonight.
And he doesn't know that he' s infected with a paralyzing disease, and we don't know that too, because this is how the world works.
This is the planet that we live on, and don't pretend it' s not.
We love to wrap ourselves up in lies. We love that.
Did you take all your vitamins to the morning?
echo in ace, a little hair dioxide called an ant iox id, who helps you to pay attention.
I know you've done that because half of Americans do this every day.
They take the stuff, and they take alternative cures, and it doesn't make any difference, as often we find out they' re useless.
The data kept coming out of that.
They make your urine, and they almost never do it.
That's okay, you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine.
I agree with you completely.
Dun cl eros is. Dark.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that?
Well, I think I understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry.
We hate a strong government. We don't have faith in the system.
And we shouldn't do that either. Our healthcare system is miserable.
It's cruel to millions of people.
It's absolutely amazing cold and emotional even to us who can afford it.
So we're running away from where are we going?
We run into the arms of placebo industrial industry.
That's great. I love the placebo industry.
But you know, this is really a serious business, because this stuff is crap, and we're spending billions of dollars on it.
And I have all kinds of little props here.
K one of them -- G ing ko, echo ed in Er ace, cheating, because I don't even know what that is, but we give billions of dollars to it, it' s fraud.
And you know what? When I say that, people scream at me and say, "What's taking care? Let' s do what they want.
And they feel good ."
And you know what? You've wrong.
Because it doesn't matter whether it' s the Minister of Health who says, "Hmm, I'm not going to accept the evidence of my experts at Mam mo tor haw ks who wants to treat his patients with coffee shop.
If you go to this path, where belief and magic evidence and science, you get to a place where you don't want to be.
You get to T ha M ow o K ki in South Africa.
He took 400, 000 of his people around because he insisted that red clubs, crunch y and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know that they can slow down the course of AIDS.
Hundreds of thousands of un requ ited death in a country that's worse than any other person in this disease.
Don't tell me that these things don' t have consequences.
They have them. They always have them.
Now, the brain less epidemic in which we're in, this absurd battle between the engagements to collapsed food and the bio - elite.
This is a i imaginative debate. It has to stop.
It's a debate about words, about metaphors.
This is ideology, not science.
Everything we eat, every single cousin of cat, every branch of Peter silver, every rose thor ns, was changed by the people.
You know, there was no mon mon ds in paradise.
There was no C ant ou pe co - Nat ivity, and there were no Christmas trees, and we did all this.
We've done it in the last 11, 000 years.
And some of them didn't work and some things.
We've become less what doesn' t work.
Now we can make it more deeply, and of course there are risks, but we can do something like vitamin A in rice, and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives.
You don't want to do that?
I have to say that I don't understand.
We're leaning in.
Why do we do that?
Now, what I hear is: Too many chemicals, pesticides, hormones, mon ulture, we don't want to have a huge field with one thing that' s wrong.
We don't want companies to patent life.
We don't want companies to own seeds.
And you know what my answer is to all this?
Yes, you're right. Let' s take that.
It's true, we have a huge food problem, but that' s not science.
That's not something that science has nothing to do.
It's right, morality, patent, toilet.
You know that science is not a company.
She's not a country.
It's not even an idea; it' s a process.
It's a process, and sometimes it doesn' t work and sometimes it doesn't work, but the idea that we should not allow science to do their work because we' re afraid that's a real end - end end end, and it keeps millions of people from flourishing.
You know, in the next 50 years, we're going to have 70 percent more food than we' re currently going to grow. 70 percent.
This investment in Africa in the last 30 years.
It's inc ense. It' s a bad thing.
They need it, and we don't give them.
And why? Gen technology changed food.
We don't want to encourage people to eat this red stuff like you' re io.
You're io ca is something that' s half a billion people eat.
It's like a potato.
It's just a bunch of calories. It' s miserable.
It has no nutrients, it has no protein, and scientists are building all this at this point.
And then people could eat that and wouldn't be blind.
You wouldn't starve, and you know what?
That would be nice. It wouldn't be like Che z Pan, but it would be nice.
And all I can say about that is, why do we fight this?
I mean, let's ask ourselves, why do we fight this?
Because we don't want to push a gene around?
It's not about imposing genes around them. It' s not about chemicals.
It's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones, our ability to maintain greater food, better nutrition, more unique food.
It's not about R ice Kris f es, it' s about getting people alive, and it's time to understand what that means.
Because you know what?
If we don't do that, if we continue to do so much more than we do so far, we owe ourselves to something we don' t want to be guilty, high - tech colonialism.
There's no other description for what' s happening here.
It's selfish, it' s ugly, it's not worthy, and we really need to stop that.
So after this incredibly funny conversation, you might like, "You still want to go into this ridiculous machine, and go to the future ?"
Anyway, so I want to go to everyone.
At the moment, it's in the present, but we have an incredible opportunity.
We can put this time machine on everything we want.
We can move it wherever we want to move it, and we will move it where we want.
We need to take these conversations and we need to think, but if we go up into the machine time, we will be happy to have that done.
I know we can do it, and as far as it affects me, it's something that needs the world.
Thank you. Thank you.
When Steve Lopez, the columns of L L. A., one day traveling through the streets of Los Angeles, he heard a wonderful music.
She came from a man, an African - American, sympathetic, homeless, homeless who played on a violin, who only had two strings.
Many of you will know the story, because from Stefan Sag me articles on this later, a book that was gripped by Robert Dow nt ney's Stone Age, and Jamie Fox Sal nie, the Con tra ela, the Con quer or the Columbian racist longitudinal student, and he was a promising career, and he was finished soon by his paranoid schizophrenia.
Nathaniel left Juilliard, a nerves came together and 30 years later he lived as a homeless shelter on the streets of Los Angeles.
I would encourage all of you to read the book or look at the film so that you don't just understand the wonderful connectedness that between these two men and also how the music helped make this connection, and how ultimately it was the instrument that helped the word play was helping Nathaniel from the street.
I met Mr. Ay ers in 2008, two years ago, in the Walt Disney Con Con figuration.
He just had heard a show of Beethoven's first and V - driven symphony, came behind the stage to imagine.
He spoke in a very hot and social tone about Y ikes and Hillary Clinton and about how the Dodgers would never create the baseball World Series, and all of this because of the violin, the first violin passage in the last sentence of Beethoven Love Symphony.
We came to speak about music, and a few days later, I got an email that was standing on him for violin education.
I still have to mention that Nathaniel has had been able to achieve medical treatment because he was already treated with Tas er and his z ac inth and his hand had been resurrected.
And as a result, he's particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases, and sometimes they' re so bad that sometimes they're scratching the streets, and he disappears into the streets of Skid Row, always walk around that horror and torture qu ivering of his own mind.
And in exactly this kind of a celebrate stage of Nathaniel, when we started our first class of Le Disney Hall, and he had this crazy tro pe in his eyes and lost his eyes.
He talked about invisible demons and smoke and how to poison him in sleep.
I was scared not my fear, but I was scared that I could lose him in one of his states, and that I could destroy him to the violin, if I started to destroy clay and Ar pe ne mes and other exciting forms of the di opters and mus ics.
So I just started playing.
I played the first sentence from Beethoven Viol in concert.
And while I was playing, I noticed that in Nathaniel's eyes, a total change went ahead.
It was like he stood under the impact of an invisible medicine, a chemical response, and it was a catalyst.
Nathaniel's man transformed into understanding a calm and grace.
And like a miracle he took his violin and started playing a few snippets of violin in R & quot; and then I asked them to end up playing with them: Men d ian k ko sky, Si ya them.
And we started talking about music, starting from Bach, Beethoven, Bra vo, B printed Press, Co l ner and all the other Bs of Bart to go to it to it.
And I realized that he didn't just owned an encycloped ic knowledge about music, but with her, a close personal relationship.
He talked about her with a passion and understanding that I'm only known from my colleagues in the Phil anthropy of Los Angeles.
By playing music and talking about music, this paranoid man who had just been moved through the streets of Los Angeles, an adorable, excellent, educated, excellent, champion ed at Juilliard, graduated high school trained musicians.
Music is medicine. Music changes us.
For Nathaniel, music means psychological health.
Because music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions of his imagination and creativity into something fundamental.
And so he heads off his agonizing arms.
I understood that this is the nature of art.
And that's why we do music: so that we can do something that' s inside us, deep inside, our emotions, through our artistic lens, through our creativity lens, through reality.
And the reality of expression is that we all reach and inspires us and inspires us.
What Nathaniel went on, he brought him back to a community of friends.
The original force of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him, his talent and looked at him.
And I'm going to keep repeating with Nathaniel mus sel has, whether in the Walt Disney Hall or in Sk ania, because he reminds me why I became a musician.
Thank you.
Bruno Giussani: Thank you. Thank you.
Robert Gu Gupta au.
Robert Gu w ah au: I want to play something that I stole harsh ly pair of cell ists.
I hope you forgive me.
I'm Jane Mc Gon ig al. I design video games.
I've been developing online games for 10 years, and my goal for the next decade is to make it easy as easy to save the world in reality, how to save online games.
I have a plan for it, and I want to convince more people, including all, spend more time playing with play bigger and great games.
And right now, we spend three billion hours a week with online play.
Some of you might think, "This is a whole lot of time for games ."
Maybe something too much time when you consider how many problems we desperately need in the real world.
But in fact, my research at the Institute for the future, is exactly the opposite.
Three billion hours a week, not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world.
In fact, I'm convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, we need to dramatically increase the time.
I calculated that the time it took time to 21 billion hours a week.
And that seems to be a little bit off, so I repeat it: if we want to solve problems like hunger, climate change, global conflicts and obesity, I think we need to try to solve games online for at least 21 billion hours a week.
No, I really mean, really seriously, I mean it's serious.
Why? This picture is pretty accurate.
And why I think games are so vital for survival of human species in the future, seriously.
This is a portrait of photographer Mr. Teszler.
He wanted to capture the emotions on play, so he built a camera in front of the players.
This is one of the classic expressions of play.
If you're not a player, you may not know some of the nuances of this picture.
You probably see this sense of urgency, a bit of fear, but also very much of the gut is trying to solve a really difficult problem.
And if you're playing, you' ll see some nuances here, and the mouth is a sign of optimism, and the eyebrows show me surprise.
This is a player who's on the edge of a epic enter.
Oh, you know that. OK. pri ma.
So we have a couple of players here.
An epic victory is a result that's so extremely positive that you didn' t even know it was possible at all.
It was almost beyond the imagination, and if you reach it, you're shocked.
And that you're actually capable of doing something like this, and this is a epic victory.
This player is just a epic triumph.
And this is what we need to see on millions of faces problems around the world when we take the obstacles to attack the next century, and the face of those who confront against all odds on the verge of a epic enter.
Well, unfortunately, we're looking at this face in real life when we face difficult problems.
I call it "In life, I'm bad" face ."
And it's actually my face, you see? Yes? OK.
That's me how I do that "In life I' m bad" face ."
This is a graffiti in my former home in Berkeley, California, and I studied why we're better in play than in real life.
This is a problem that many players have.
We think in reality, we're not as good as play.
And I don't mean just less successful, even though that' s what I'm talking about.
We're going to get more in play worlds.
I mean, I'm talking to motivation, doing something meaningful, inspired to collaboration with each other.
If we're in a game world, I think that many of us turn into our best version anytime and immediately, we' re willing to solve the problem, we're adam antly trying to solve the problem as long as it takes back to the failure again.
And in reality, if we fail, if we encounter obstacles, we often feel different.
We feel overwhelmed with us, and we feel threatened by ourselves, maybe depressed, frustrated or cynical.
We never have these feelings when we play games, in games, they simply don't exist.
And that's what I wanted to study as a graduate student.
Why is it impossible to think that in games, you could not just achieve everything?
How can we transmit these feelings from games into reality?
So I looked at games like World of Warcraft, which is an ideal environment for collaborative problem solving.
And I found some things that were epic enter the online worlds so possible.
So first, if you go into one of these online games, especially in World of Warcraft, there's a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission, and it' s immediately.
But not just any mission, but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in play, right?
So do that.
They never get a job you can't solve.
But always on the edge of your skill, so you have to work hard.
But there's no unemployment in World of Warcraft, and you' re not sitting around and spinning it, and there's always very important to do something important.
And there are tons of staff.
Wherever you go, hundreds of thousands of people working with you to complete your epic mission.
We don't have that easy to do that in real life, that feeling that if you snap a finger pile of staff.
And then there's this epic story, this inspirational story, why we' re there and what we're doing, and then we get this whole positive feedback.
You've probably heard about "level high and" + 1 strength ," or "+ 1 intelligence ."
And that constant feedback is not in real life.
If I leave this stage, I don't have to speak up: + 1 crazy idea, + 20 crazy idea.
I don't get that feedback in real life.
So the problem of Co oper Online movies like World of Warcraft is that it's so satisfying to stand at the edge of a epic enter that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds.
They're better than reality.
Until today, all World of Warcraft player has spent five, 93 million years trying to solve virtual problems of A go thic ket.
That's not necessarily something bad.
It sounds nasty.
But to see it in context: 5, 93 million years ago, our first primate started to go upright.
So the first upright primate.
OK, so if we talk about how much time we spend with games, it makes sense when you think about time, when you think about the scale of human development in mind, which is extraordinary.
But also appropriate, because it turns out that by using all of the time to play, actually change what we're doing as people are able to do.
We develop to collaborative minds, warm creatures.
That's the truth. I think that' s what I believe.
So let's look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University: The average young man from today in a country with strong game culture, 10, 000 hours with online play to 21 years.
So 10, 000 hours is a very interesting number, for 2 reasons.
First of all, for children in the United States, 10. 0 80 hours are the exact exact average total amount of time they spend in school, from five classes to graduation, if you don't have missed, so we have a complete complete complete complete.
parallel tracking path that young people learn as much as what it means to be a good player, like everything else they learn in school.
And maybe some of you have read the new book from Malcolm Glad well, "Over passes ," so you know the theory of success, the theory of success, the theory of success, the 10, 000 hours.
It's based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10, 000 hours with tedious labor, and we spend any subject on the 21st of life on the planet until 21, we' re going to cover it.
We're going to be as good as whatever the most significant human world is.
So what we have here is a full generation of young people who are masters of the masterpiece.
So the big question is, "What are the players master's good ?"
Because if we could figure out that out, we'd never have been there before we have ever been able to have human potential.
So many people now have in the world that spend at least an hour a day with online play.
These are our masters player, 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something.
And over the next decade, we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good in whatever.
If you haven't heard it yet.
The game industry has developed so that they save energy and work on mobile phone nets instead of broadband Internet, so players can play around the world, especially in India, China, Brazil.
You'd expect another billion players in the next decade.
So we have 1. 5 billion players.
So I started thinking about what it is to do with a cover of the games.
Here's the four things I found: urgency of optimism.
OK, imagine how extreme self - motivated self - motivating.
Part of urgency is the desire to do something immediately, a barrier to a challenge, with faith that we have a developer hoping that we will succeed.
player always believe that an epic triumph is possible, and that it's worth trying to try and do it in a second.
player don't sit around.
player are masters at the spiders of social nets.
There's a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more people after playing with them even when they' ve beaten severe.
The reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with someone.
We trust that someone spend time with us has a chance to keep the rules that we have the same goal and to play with the play.
So this allows us to play together and grow bonds and cooperate and cooperate.
As a result, we build stronger social relationships.
Happiness. Fantastic productivity. Fantastic!
You know, there's one reason why the average word of Warcraft player' s number 22 hours a week, so in part, it's part - time job.
The reason is that when we play, we're actually happier working hard than when we relax or do nothing.
We know that we work as a human being is perfectly successful when we do hard work, meaningful work.
And player are always ready to work hard if they get the right job.
And finally, epic meaning.
player love to become part of awe - scale degradation of the planetary degradation.
Here's a background information to move the right light, and you' ve probably all heard Wikipedia, the largest Wiki of the world.
The second largest Wiki world, with almost 80, 000 entries is the World of Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They've carried more information on World of Warcraft on the Internet than any other subject in any other wiki of the world.
They create a epic story.
They create a epic source of knowledge about the World of Warcraft.
OK, so these are four superpowers leading to a single result, players are super - powerful, hopeful individuals.
They are people who believe that they can change as a single person around the world.
And the only problem is that they believe they can change the virtual worlds, but not the real world.
That's the problem I try to solve.
Edward Cas lo lo bo is a popular scientist.
His work is ingenious. He's trying to study why.
People spend so much time spending energy and spending money on online worlds.
And he says, "We're not going to witness a witness of mass - volume in virtual worlds and online game circuits ."
And this is an economist, and so he's logical.
And he says -- Not as I -- I develop games, I'm somewhat about harsh.
So he says that this makes sense, because players can achieve more than in real life.
You can connect stronger social bonds than in real life, and they get more feedback and reward in games than in real life.
So he says it's completely obvious that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world.
I'd never agree, that' s logical.
But it's definitely not a baseline.
We need to start turning the real world into a game.
My inspiration comes from an event that's 2, 500 years back.
There are these ancient cube, a sheep's markets. You know?
And before these fantastic games, there were sheep's Pro vine.
And these were sort of the first of humans developed game machines, and if you're familiar with the book of ancient Greek historian Her lover, you might know this story, and the story about how games were invented.
According to Her death games, the game plays, a more concrete game in the kingdom, in the kingdom.
And it was such a great famine that the king of Ly r ower is decided to make a crazy idea.
People were suffering. People fought.
It was an extreme situation. It took an extreme solution.
So they invented loud, according to Her ser ie, the cube and agreed a national strategy, and then you would eat, and on the next day you would play.
And they would be so much in the dice, so that games are so fascinating and satisfy us, happy productivity, that they would forget that there was nothing to eat.
And then, the next day you would play, and the next day you would eat.
And according to Herschel survived that way for 18 years, that famine habit by eating and playing the next one.
And just like, I think we're going to play games today.
We use games to escape the suffering of the real world, and we use games to avoid all the way that works in the real world, everything that's not satisfying in real life, and we get ourselves out of play.
But that doesn't have to be the end.
And that's what' s exciting.
According to Her death, after 18 years, famine wasn't better, so the king decided to put a final roll.
They divided the kingdom into two halves.
They played a cube game, and the winner was allowed to break a epic adventure.
They left ig ators and they went to search for a new home, and they just let so many people go back and looked like food for survival and looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive.
It sounds crazy, right?
But latest DNA evidence shows that the aspen ro ous en who later trained the Roman Empire, has the same DNA as the old Lloyd dish.
And so scientists recently came to the notion that Herschel's crazy story is actually true.
And geologists found evidence of a global cooling cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine might explain.
So this crazy story might be true.
Maybe they've actually saved their people through play by playing games for 18 years, and then they had this blended and so much about cooperation that they learned to interact with the entire civilization.
So we can do that too.
We've been playing for Warcraft.
This was the first strategy in real time.
World of Warcraft series, and that was 16 years ago.
They played dice for 18 years, we've been playing Warcraft.
I'm saying we' re ready for our own epic play.
So they sent half their civilization to search for a new world, so I'm going to take my 21 billion hours a week.
We should match up in that half of us spend an hour a day with play, until we solved the problems of real world.
I know you're going to ask, "How do we solve real world problems?
And that question is, and exactly that question, I've spent my work on the Institute for the future.
We have this banner in our office in Palo Alto, and it's just pushing the future.
We don't want to try and tell the future before.
What we want to do is create the future.
We want to think about the best possible outcome, and then people will empower the idea to make reality.
We're in epic enter and we give people the opportunity to achieve them.
I'm going to show you just three games that I designed to try and get people epic enter into their own future.
This is "world without oil ."
The game is from 2007.
It's a online game that you have to overcome a fossil shortage.
The oil shortage is invented, but we have enough online content to make it realistic and you actually live your real life without oil, so if you raise your life, you tell yourself where you live, and then you get news movies in real time that show you how much oil costs you, what's not going to do, how much food is impaired feeding you.
How transportation is closed, whether schools are closed, whether there's rioting, and you have to figure out how to design your real life if it was true, and we ask you to employ them blogging videos or photo c os.
We tested this game with 1, 700 players in 2007, and we've been carrying it since the last three years.
And I can tell you, it was a changing experience.
No one wants to change his life because it's good for the environment, or because we should.
But if you're in a epic adventure and you' re told, "We're going to go out of oil ."
This is a fascinating adventure that you're going to do.
Find out how you would survive, and most of our players have learned how to do habits.
So we've put a bigger game for the next world, more likely to put a bigger, higher goal than just oil scarcity.
We've developed the game called Great End Institute for the future.
And the point is that computation is a supercomputer that people have only had 23 years on the planet.
This supercomputer is called global warming - boggling ly tizing systems, of course.
The call for gamers to embrace, we've designed almost like a Jerry B piano.
You know Jerry B printed films where there's the Dream team, and they have the astronauts, the ex - ts band, and only together they can save the world.
But in our game, instead of just five people, we say, every one is in the Dream team, and it's our job to create the future for energy, food, health, security and the future of social justice.
8, 000 players played the game for 8 weeks.
They found 500 creative solutions you can read when you Google "Great Correct ions ."
And the last game is that we bring out on the third March, and it's a game in collaboration with the World Bank.
If you finish the game, you get the World Bank award for Social Security Institute, 2010.
We work with universities in all sub - Saharan Africa, and invite them to learn social engineering.
We have a comic book on this. We have level high - level vision, knowledge creation, sustainability, vision and ingenuity.
I want to invite all of you to share this game with young people everywhere in the world, especially in development areas that benefit from being able to imagine and to save their own social enterprises to save the world.
I'm going to finish.
I want to ask you something.
What do you think happens next?
We have all these fantastic players, we have games that show us what we can do, but we haven't saved the real world.
Well, I hope you agree with me that player's human resources that we can use to work in real life, and that games have a big meaning for change.
We have all these super - healthy forces, happy productivity, the ability to make close social nets, urgency and desire to trigger - loving meaning.
I really hope that we play together meaningful games to survive on this planet.
And I hope you're going to design and play with me.
And if I look forward to the next decade, I'm sure that we can create every future imaginable, we can create every possible game that we can play, and that we can play all sorts of games, so I say, let' s start the world - changing games.
Thank you.
For some time, I've been interested in the placebo effect, it may seem strange that a magician' s magician's magician' s been interested in this way, because you look at it as a deception becomes a real real, if someone just believes in it ."
In other words, sugar pills have shown in some studies, shown a measurable effect called placebo effect, and that's why the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management, for example, if the patient only believes in it, there' s a measurable impact on the body that you call the placebo effect.
A deception becomes something real, because someone sees it so much.
So we also understand each other, and I want to show you a basic, a basic magic trick.
And I'm going to show you how it works, and this is a trick that has at least since the 1950s book stands for children.
I myself learned him from the C S ran Sc out Mag nes ian Trail in the 1970s.
I'm going to do it for you and explain it.
And then I'm going to explain why I explain him.
So, look what happens.
The knife you can study; my hand you can study.
I'm just going to hold the knife in my hand.
I don't get my English head back.
And to make sure nothing disappear in my sleeve or out of him, I'm just going to push my wrist right here.
And in this way, you can see that there's nothing moving around, and as long as I' m trying to push here, nothing can go out into my sleeve or come out.
And the goal here is quite simple.
I'm going to open my hand, hopefully if everything goes well, the knife is held by my bare physical body.
It's actually so solid at its place that I can shake it without falling down.
Nothing travels in my sleeve or comes out, no trick les, and you can study everything.
Ta - da!
Well, this is a trick that I often bring little kids to work for magic because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely at it, even though you look closely at it, even though it's a very simple trick.
Probably many of you know this in the room, this trick is.
And it's the way that it works.
I hold the knife in my hand.
I say I'm going to close my wrist, to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or out, and that' s a lie.
The reason I hold my wrist is because the real secret of the illusion is that it's the real secret of the illusion.
Because at the moment, where I turn my hand away from you so you can see it moving from the back, this finger is moving from there, my index finger, just from where it was, in a position where he was so extended.
Great trick?
There's somebody who didn' t have childhood.
So it's here. Exactly.
And when I turn around, the finger changes its position.
And now you could talk about why this is a deception, why you don't hear it at the bottom is just three fingers, because the mind and the way it processes and the way it processes information is not one, one, two, three, but it looks as a group.
But this is not really about all of us, and then I open my hand.
Of course, it's held there, but it' s not magnetism by the magnetism's body, it' s by a trick that's on my finger finger finger, which is now there.
And if I close my hand, the same thing happens by turning me back, is hidden through this movement, the fingers will move back again.
I take that hand away, and here's the knife.
This trick is to show your friends and neighbors. Thank you.
Now, what does this have to do with placebo effect?
A year ago or something, I read a study that really blew my mind.
I'm not a doctor or scientist, and that' s why this was an amazing thing for me.
And what it turns out is that if you offer a placebo in a white pill, in the form of a spir ation, that's just a round, white pill that has measurable effect.
But if you give the shape that you put on placebo, for example, in a smaller pill, and you color in a smaller pill, and you can see that color color and form a letter in it, it's actually measurable.
And that, although none of these pharmaceutical ics are just sugar pills.
But a white pill is not as good as a blue pill.
What? This really made me freak out.
But it turns out that it's not all.
If you take capsules that are even more effective than pills each form.
A colored capsule that's on a side of yellow and on the other red is better than a white capsule.
And also, the process is playing a role.
A pill twice a day, not as good as three pills -- I can't remember the exact statistics. Sorry.
But the key thing is...
... that also, the cali pers play a role.
And the shape plays a role.
And if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect, you have to grab the needle.
Right? A syringe with a ineffective substance of a ineffective substance you injected in a patient.
It creates a very strong picture in your head, and it's a lot stronger than a white pill.
This chart is really -- I'm going to show you another time when we have a project.
So the fact is that the white pill doesn't seem as good as the blue pill that doesn' t seem as good as a capsule that doesn't seem as good as the needle.
And nothing of that has some really real pharmaceutical property, and it's just our faith that has made stronger impact on us.
I wanted to know if I could use this idea for a magic trick.
I take something that's obvious to be a deception, and let' s make it look real.
And we know from this study that you have to grab the needle when it's supposed to go to the cause.
This is a six - inch hat needle. She's very, very, very repetitive, and I' m going to start with them a little bit sterile.
This is really my flesh. It's not Dam in special farming.
This is my skin. This is not a special effect of Hollywood.
I'm now going to bite the needle into my skin and push through it until it comes back to the other side.
If you're bad, if you' re slightly bombed, I've shown this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room, and some people I didn' t know about, and this is a woman almost exclusively - powerful woman.
So I'm proposing if you' re going to be tough, look away for the next 30 seconds, or, you know what I'm going to do for the first sensitive part here.
You can see it in a second, but you can also see it away if you want to.
So it's like this, right here where my flesh starts, at the lower part of my arm, I' m just going to make a small puncture boat.
Sorry. Do you mind that crazy?
And now just a little bit through my skin and out on the other side of that.
Now we're actually in the same situation that we' ve had a knife trick ier.
Rough ly.
But now you can't count my fingers, right?
So I'm going to show you. This is one, two, three, four, five.
Well, yeah.
I know what people think when they see that.
They say, "Okay, that's probably not so stupid and stupid and going through the skin itself to spend just a few minutes ."
Well, then I'm going to show you.
What does this look like? Pretty good.
Yes, I know. And people back in the back say, "Okay. I haven't seen this right ."
People in the adjacent spaces are getting in there.
Let me show you a close way.
This is really my skin. This is not a special effect of Hollywood.
This is my flesh, and I can spin it around.
Sorry. If you're sick, look away, don' t look.
The people back in the back or the ones that later see on video will say, "Well, that looks pretty impressive, but if it was real, it would look -- you see, here's a hole and there if it would be real, it would bleed out there if it would be real, it would bleed ."
Okay, let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you.
Yes, here it is.
And I would normally take the needle out.
I would give my arm clean and show you that there's no wounds.
But I think in this frame and with intention to make a fool a really real, I'm just going to let the needle go in there and go off the stage.
We're going to face a few times in the next few days.
I hope you're excited about it. Thank you.
So I've known many fish in my life.
I only loved two.
This first one was more like an passionate affair.
It was a beautiful fish, delicious, good texture, a bestseller, a bestseller.
What a fish.
More importantly, he was co - aquaculture, according to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you could feel comfortable selling it.
I had this beauty with a relationship with several months.
One day, the boss of the company started asking if I could make a conference about sustainability, how do you farm sustainability from the farm.
"Of course ," I said.
Here's a company trying to solve what' s been an incredible problem for our chefs, and how do we keep fish on our menu?
In the last 50 years, we've fished the oceans like we' ve beaten forests.
It's hard to rate destruction.
Ninety percent of the big fish that we love, the tuna, the tuna but lers, the sword fish, sword fish, they've collapsed.
There's almost nothing left.
So I think it's going to be nasty, or farming, fish, a part of our future.
Many arguments against fish farming pollute the environment, most of them anyway, and they're inefficient, we take tuna. One big disadvantage.
He's got a food review from 15 to one.
That means 15 pounds of wild fish need to get a pound tuna to aquaculture.
Not very sustainable.
Don't even bother doing very well.
So here was finally a company trying to do it right.
I wanted to support them.
Day before the event, I called the boss of public work for the company.
Let's call him Don.
"Don ," I said," just to have the facts right, you're famous for getting so far out in the ocean that you don' t pollute ."
"That's true ," he said," We' re so far out that the waste of our fish is being distributed ."
And then he added, "We're basically a whole world.
And these feed ings from 2. 5 to 1, he said.
"The best in the industry ."
Two and a half to one, great.
"2. 5 to one thing? What does her feed ?"
"Sustainable proteins ," he said.
"Great ," I said. Le owed.
And that night, I lay in bed, and I thought, what the hell is a sustainable protein?
So I called the next day, just before the event, Don't.
I said, "Don, what are sustainable proteins ?"
He said he didn't know. He' s going to ask for questions.
Well, I emailed the phone with a few people in the company, and nobody could give me a decent answer, until finally, with the executive phone on the phone.
Let's call him Don' t.
"Don ," I said," What are sustainable proteins ?"
Well, he mentioned some algae and some fish surround me, and then he said, chicken pellets.
I said, "chicken pellets ?"
He said, "Yes, feathers, skin litter, dried and food ."
I said, "How much percentage of your food is chicken ?"
Maybe two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent ," he said.
I said, "Don, what's sustainable to feed chicken fish ?"
There was a long pause on the line, and he said, "There's just too chicken on the planet ."
I loved myself from this fish.
No, not because I'm a more just genius and good person.
I'm even.
No, I actually love a little bit of love with this fish because I swear to God who has sp iled fish after that conversation after that conversation.
This second fish, which is a different kind of love story.
It's the romantic way, the way you' ve ever learned to know your fish is you're learning the fish you love the more.
I first ate it in a restaurant in Southern Spain.
A journalist had been talking about this fish for a long time.
It's kind of sho vel us.
He came up with a bright, almost glowing white color at the table.
The chef had forged him.
Hold twice.
Amazing ly, he was still delicious.
Who can make a fish taste so tasty after he was able to make it?
I can't, but this guy can.
Let's call it Miguel.
And no, he doesn't cook the fish, and he' s not a chef, at least in the way that you and I understand them under.
He's a biologist at V ta a La Pal au.
This is a fish dividing in the south western western cathedral.
She's close to the mouth of the river Gu adal iv ir.
Until the 1980s, the farm was a farm in the hands of Argentine an.
They grew meat in the world, which were basically wetlands.
They did that by irrig ating the country.
They built this complicated consequence of canals and they kept pushing water out of the country and out into the river.
Well, they couldn't make a difference that worked, not economically.
And ecologically a disaster.
It took about 90 percent of the birds to see what are a lot of birds in these places.
And so 1982, a Spanish company bought environmental wealth.
What did they do?
They've gone back to the river of water vice versa.
They literally put the levers.
Instead of trying to push the water out, they used the channels to pull the water back.
They were flooded by canals.
They created a 11, 000 hectares of fish -- Bar k, the sea shrimp, A al -- and then you have Miguel and its company completely opposite vice versa.
Farm is incredible.
I mean, you've never seen anything like this.
They stare at the horizon that's a million miles away, and all they' re seeing is flooded by canals and these dense march.
I wasn't there a long time with Miguel.
He's a incredible guy, three parts Charles Darwin and a part of "A crocodile ."
Okay? Because we were fighting through the wetlands and I'm rushing and I' m rushing and the lightning, I've got Mat pe to my knees and Miguel is in a biology lecture.
Here he lifts a rare gluten.
Now, he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton.
And here, here he sees a pattern of alliance, which reminds him of the Tanzanian giraffe.
It turns out that Miguel has spent the largest part of his career in M um i National Park in Africa.
And I asked him how he became a fish expert.
He said, "Fish? I don't know about fish.
I'm an expert on relationships ."
And then he goes and crashes down into more talk about rare birds and algae and strange water plants.
And don't understand me wrong, that was really fascinating, you know, the symbiotic community have been in the way.
It's great, but I fell in love with it.
And my head became weak over this hole - held piece of delicious fish that I had on the brink of date.
So I interrupted. I said, "Miguel, how does it feel that your fish taste so good ?"
He showed up the algae.
"I know boy, the algae, the phytoplankton, the relationships, that's incredible.
But what do you eat?
How is the food rating ?"
Well, he's moving forward to telling me that it' s so rich in a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild.
The vegetable biomass, the phytoplankton, the zoop lank ton, which is what the fish feeds.
The system is so healthy, it's completely innovate.
There's no food.
The one farm belongs to a farm that doesn't feed her animals?
Later on day, I went around on this property with Miguel and I asked him, I said, "For a place that seems like that, unlike any farm I've ever been," How do you measure success ?"
At the moment, it was like a movie director would have required a stage.
And we're talking about arc around the corner and we' d offered the incredible sight of the past, thousands and thousands of pink flamingos, a literally pink carpet - down carpet so far.
"That's success ," he said.
"Look at their balls, pink ie.
They're going to push ."
Dif fic ult? I was completely confused.
I said, "Miguel, don't they put fish ?"
"Yes ," he said.
"We lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds.
Well last year, 600, 000 birds were on this site, more than 250 different species.
It's the biggest and one of the most important private bird reserves in Europe.
I said, "Miguel, is a good animal that was not the last thing you want to be surprised with a fish ?"
He shook his head, no.
He said, "We build special, not intense.
This is an ecological network.
The wild - eating shrimp eat the shrimp.
The shrimp eat the phytoplankton.
So the pink er on the belly, the better the system ."
Okay, let's rethink this: a farm that doesn' t feed her animals and measures a farm that measures her success on health of her predators.
A fish is torn up, but a bird reserved.
Oh, by the way, these wild - capped corridors shouldn't be there.
They breed in a city of 240 mile, where the ground - made power is better for the nest.
Every morning, they fly 240 kilometers to farm.
And every night, they fly 240 kilometer.
They do that because they can follow the white line of the country's highway.
Seriously.
I had introduced myself to a kind of trip of penguins, so I looked at Miguel.
I said, "Miguel, fly 240 kilometer to the farm and fly 240 kilometers at night?
Do they do that for the children ?"
He looked at me when I was just quoted a song from Whitney Houston.
He said, "No. They do this because food is better ."
I didn't mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious, and I don' t like fish skin, I don't like it, I don' t like it, I don't like a kne eling.
It's this bite, it cooled down, cooled down.
I almost never cook it.
And yet, when I tried it in Southern Spain to the White Plains, she didn't even throw it into fish.
She liked it cute, and it's like taking a bite from the ocean.
I mentioned this to Miguel and he nod ded.
He said, "The skin works like a sponge.
She's the last defense before something enters the body.
It's evolved over evolution to suck up in imperfections ."
And then he added, "But our water has no imperfections ."
Okay. A farm that doesn't feed her fish, a farm that measures her success at a success.
And then I realized when he says a farm that doesn't have any imperfections, under push enormous, because the water that' s flowing through this farm from the river to G ad al co - champion.
It's a river that causes all the things that are starting to lead from these rivers today tend to lead them with chemical pollutants, chemicals, from pest regulation.
And when it fought through the system, and that leaves that water clean, when it came in.
The system is so healthy, it cleans the water.
So not only a farm that doesn't feed her animals, not only a farm that measures her success on the health of her predators, but a farm that literally is a water - processing plant, and it' s not just for those fish but also for you and me.
Because when the water flows, it's violently disput ed in the Atlantic.
A drop in the ocean, I know, but I take it, and I want you to do it, because this romance story, like romantic, is also illuminating.
You might say she's a recipe for the future of good food, whether we speak of bar or meat.
So what we need now is a radically new concept of agriculture, from one that actually tastes good at food.
But for many people, this is a little radical.
We're not real ists, we genius. We' re lover.
We love weeks markets, we love small families, we talk about local food, we eat organic food.
And if you claim that these are the things that make good food assure you somewhere in the future, someone says, "Hey people, I love pink flamingos, but how are you going to feed the world?
How are you going to feed the world ?"
Can I be honest?
I don't like that question.
No, not because we're making enough calories to feed the world more than just feeding.
A billion people are starving today.
A billion -- this is more than ever before -- because of the shaved inequalities, not the total production.
Well, I don't like this question because it' s meant that it's meant that it' s meant for the last 50 years.
Feed ing crops to plant pests, pest crop pest, chemicals that we use crop varieties, chemicals on the Earth, chicken fish, and all the time has asked the agricultural industry, "If we feed more people cheaper, how awful does it be ?"
That was the cause of the cause, it was the right - making, it was the business plan of American agriculture.
We should call them what it is, a commercial development, a commercial capital that would make up fast ecological capital that enables this production.
This is not commercial, and it's not agriculture.
Our grain chamber is now threatened not to lose weight because of the beginning, but because of the resources.
Not through the latest M ame t ugs and tractors and tractors, but by a fertile country, not by pumps but by fresh water, not by chainsaw s, but through forests, not through fishing boats and fishing boats, but through fish.
They want to feed the world?
Let's start with the question: How are we going to feed ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself?
To do that, don't look at the agricultural industry model for the future.
It's really old, and it' s done.
capital, chemistry and machines are at the top, and it never made a really good food for food.
Let's look at the ecological model.
This is what's happening back to two billion years of work experience.
Watch Miguel, farmers like Miguel.
Companies that don't have worlds for themselves to restore business to restore businesses instead of working businesses, raising facilities instead of just intense farmers who are not only building clients but experts on relationships.
Because they are the ones who are experts in taste.
And if I'm really honest, they' re a better chef than I'm ever going to be.
You know, that's right to me, because if the future is good food, it' s delicious.
Thank you.
I grew up with an deaf - related portion of science fiction.
I went to school with the bus fare in my school every day, a hour of a walk.
And my nose always stuck in a book, a science fiction book that led my thoughts in other worlds, and in narrative, my deep - seated, insatiable curiosity hit me.
And this curiosity also showed that I was always when I wasn't in school, walking through the forests of the forests, walked away and collected "samples and snakes and bug water, everything brought home and underneath the microscope.
I was really excited about science, you know.
It was always about trying to understand the world and the boundaries of what's possible.
And my love to mirror science fiction seemed to mirror myself in my environment, because then back in the late'60s, we flew to the moon and explore the deep sea.
Jacques Cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that animals and places and a world full of wonder that we never could have imagined before.
And that's probably pretty good at this science fiction.
And I was an artist.
I could draw. I could paint.
And because there was no video games nor the inter - saturation of the movies that were still held together in the media landscape, I had to create the images in my head.
And we all had to read that back then, when we read a book, we took the description of the author and projected them onto the canvas onto our heads.
My reaction was to draw and painting aliens, alien worlds, robots, bridges, space bites and all that.
In math education, I was always caught by the teacher who I painted behind the textbook, painted around.
Creativity had to kind of go out.
And what happened was something interesting, which was that I was fascinated by Jacques Cousteau's shows, the idea was a completely unknown world here on Earth itself.
I'm sure that I would never reach an alien world with a spaceship, and it seemed pretty unlikely to be.
But here was a world I could actually enter, here on Earth, and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all I had always imagined when I read these books.
So I decided when I was 15 to divers.
The only problem with this was that I lived in a small village in Canada, 1, 000 miles away from the next ocean.
But I didn't get frustrated.
I was annoying my father until finally he finally made a dive - down college in Buffalo, New York, found out exactly on the other side of the border where we lived.
I made my dive into a pool of Y ou z in the winter in Buffalo, New York.
But the ocean, a real ocean, I only got two years later on face when we moved to California.
Since then, in the 40 years now, I've spent about 3, 000 hours underwater vessels, 500 hours of it in submersibles.
And I've learned that the world' s deep ocean, even in the shallow oceans, is so rich in the deep ocean, as we can't really imagine.
The imaginative nature of nature doesn't know borders, unlike our own, sh oc ating human imagination.
Until today, I feel deepest awe for what I see on my diving dives.
And my love to the ocean holds up with the same intensity as ever.
And when I was looking for an adult job, it was making films.
And this seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to share stories with my need to unite images.
As a child, I was constantly drawing comic books and so.
So movies were the way to assemble images and stories, and that fit together.
Of course, the stories I looked for was the science fiction fringe ," and "Ab bey ."
In "Ab gle", I could associate my predi lection for the underwater world and diving with the movies.
So, I'm kind of mesh - like, sort of, my two passions.
Something interesting happened to "Ab bey" -- to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that's what we had to create a liquid water, we took to copy - generated animation, C G, C.
What came out with was the first computer - generated dog - generated character ever saw in a movie.
And the film was not a cash, and he just said, "He's just played his production, but I realized something fascinating: The audience around the world was like hypnotic, from the magic that came out.
According to Arthur Clarke's law, as you know, spell long - term technology and magic is not different from each other.
So they saw something magical.
And that's what I found incredibly exciting.
And I thought, "Wow, that needs to be involved in the movie art ."
So we went to "Terminator 2 ," my next film, even more.
And together with FI LM, we made the guy out of liquid metal, and the success was all about how this effect would arrive.
And it worked. Again, we created something magical, and the effect in the audience was the same, but we've played a little bit more money with the movie.
From those two experiences, a whole new world has reached a whole new world of creativity for film.
So I started a company with my good friend Stan Winston W, who was at that time the best makeup and the museum was called "Digital Cities ."
And the idea of this company was to skip the stage mo processes with visual printers and so forth and start to skip the digital manufacturing department.
And we did that, and we managed to get a competitive advantage for a while.
But in the mid -' 90s, we realized that we were in the Berkeley and Charter for Design -- which we actually started to build -- slowly.
I had written this piece of "Avatar ," which should push the measuring hand in visual effects and computer - generated effects in all new heights, with real - human expressive characters that had been made using C G. And the main characters should all be C. And the world's players should be C.
But the bar put it very nice back, and people in my company told me that we're not able to do casual.
So if I did that, I told you that other film about the big ship, that's going to end.
And so the film studio, I sold this as "R astic ation and Julia on a ship, and it became a love film of epic proportions, a passionate film.
But secretly, I really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the Titanic.
So I made the film.
That's the truth. The studio didn' t know.
But I've convinced them by saying, "We' re going to go to the wreck, we're filming the wreck.
We're going to show it in the opening sequence of the film.
It's incredibly important. It' s a good - way - consuming marketing.
And I talked about them to fund an expedition.
Sounds crazy. But that's a little bit back to that your imagination can create a reality.
And we actually created a reality six months later, a reality that I found myself in a Russian submersible, four miles below the surface of the North Atlantic, and I was looking at the real Titanic through a bulldo zed.
This wasn't a movie, no high definition, that was real.
So that blew my mind.
And the amount of excitement was, we had to build cameras and light - based lights and everything we could do.
And I noticed how much these deep sea caps were, a space mission.
Well, they were also highly technical and highly sophisticated planning techniques.
You go up into this capsule, and then you're floating down in this dark, hostile environment where there' s no hope for saving when you're not going to get it back.
And I thought, "Wow, that's the same way that I would be in a science fiction movie.
It's really cool ."
I was literally obsessed with research on the deep sea.
Anyway, part of the part that has to do with curiosity and science, it was all. It was adventure, it was curiosity. It was imagination.
And there was an experience that could not give me Hollywood.
Because, you know, I could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect, but I couldn't imagine what I would see outside the window.
And with some of the following expeditions, I've seen creatures in There' s no words I've never seen before, sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before and for science at the time when we saw them, even words that haven' t found words.
So that's what I' d put in right, and I wanted to go more.
And so I made a little unusual decision.
After the success of "Titanic", I told myself, "Okay, I want to put my major professional professional professional writing in Hollywood, and I'm going to spend time full - time scientists ."
And then we started planning these expeditions.
We came up to the Bis mar ck, and we explored robotic vehicles.
We went back to the wreck of the Titanic.
We took little robots that we built, that com bs the arch ers, the com bs of the cable.
Our intent was to dive inside and look at the inside of the ship, which never had been done before.
Nobody's ever explored the inside of the W ra s dilemma, and you haven' t had a means of it yet, so we developed the technology.
So now I'm sitting on the deck of Titanic, in a dive boat, and I see plan boards that look quite similar to these wooden boards, and I know that once played the band there.
And I fly with a little robotic vehicle, through the course of the ship.
I'm actually shopping for this, but my consciousness is within the vehicle.
It felt like I was physically inside the shipyard's weight of the Titanic.
This was the surreal form of a D  j ou j ou j as I've ever experienced, because before I walked around a corner, I always knew what was going on in the light of the vehicle, because I' d walked up for months, I'd set a set of film for months when we turned the movie.
Because the set was a exact replica of the ship plans.
So this was a highly curious experience.
She made me realize this telepresence experience that you use such robotic avatars and so your own consciousness in the vehicle, and so you can move away from existence in this other form of existence.
It was really profound.
And maybe even a little bit closer to what might happen in a few decades, if you have Cy borg and do something that could happen or do other things in all sorts of post - human future mail s d n ulated tro pe that I can think of as science fiction.
After these expeditions, we started learning what we've seen down there, really appreciate, such as these deep sea sources, where we saw these incredible animals, and that' s kind of alien - year - alien, but here on Earth.
They live with help of chemo synthesis.
They don't exist in a sunlight - based system, how we do it.
And so you can see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade.
Water cloud is living, and you can't imagine that they can survive there.
At the same time, I was also interested in space science, and this was the science fiction trick made from my childhood.
And so I ended up with the people who care about space and who are dealing with NASA and doing the NASA - doing things and planning missions, and they drive to Russia, and they go through the mission of the mission, and they're running down to the biomedical protocol, and then they fly to the international space station and take our 3D cameras.
That was fascinating.
But at the end, it turned out that I took space scientists to take us into the deep sea.
I took them to share with them and reporting them to the world down there: astro biologists, planets, people who care about extreme situations, and I took them to sources and use tools to look around, and they could test samples and test tools and test them.
We were doing documentary films, but actually science, I was also saying, space science.
So this is how the circle between my existence was a science fiction fan, then as a child and implementation in reality.
And over this exploration trip, I've learned a lot.
I've learned a lot about science, but I also learned a lot about leadership style.
Now, you're certainly thinking, a director must also lead, a leader can be like a ship captains or something.
But I didn't understand much about leadership before I joined these expeditions.
Because at a certain point, I had to say, "What do I do here?
Why do I do that? What's coming out ?"
These stupid films don't bring us money.
We're just playing the production cost of producing, and there' s no trace.
Everybody thinks I'd gone between the Titanic and "Avatar" and "and would have been dragging me anywhere on a towel on the beach.
I've made all these films, these documentary films, for a very small audience.
No fame, no honor, no money, what are you doing?
You're doing it for the job, for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that we' re doing, and you're doing it for the disco theque because of the weird connection that comes when a small group of people builds up.
Because we've done all this with just 10 to 12 people who have worked with uninterrupted for years, sometimes we were two to three months in a row.
And in this community, you can see that the most important thing is the outcome that you have in front of each other because you've managed to overcome a job that you can' t explain to any other thing.
If you come back to country and you say, "We had to do it, the Fi bers, the sound of sound, and the whole technique, and the difficulties that have been working on sea, and the difficulty of solving the human performance, if you're not able to explain the other thing, and that' s like police officers or military personnel who have gone through in common and know they can't explain somebody.
There's a connection that mutual respect.
So when I came back to turn my next film "avatar", I tried to apply the same leadership style, which is that you respects your team respected and deserve their respect.
And this is really changed the dynamic.
So I stood back with a small team on the unknown terrain, and we turned "Avatar" with a new technology that didn't exist before.
Amazing.
A tremendous challenge.
And we became a four - and - a - half years old for a four and a half years.
And this changed my way to make films completely.
There were people who thought we'd really done this ocean and run on planet Earth' s Pand oran.
For me, it was a central set of doing my job, the real process that changed in the outcome.
So what can we close all of that?
What lessons do we learn?
I think the first place is curiosity.
It's the most powerful human property.
Our imagination is a force that can even create a reality.
And the Be aware of your team is more important than ever bought ever completed.
To me, young filmmaker who says, "Give me a advice about how I can do this ."
And I say, "Don't make you yourself a way.
And it's got others for you. Don' t bet on yourself, don't bet against yourself, but take risks on you ."
NASA has one of the favorite things: "failure is not an alternative ."
But in art and researching failure to be an alternative, because there's guaranteed to be a choice there, there' s a trust of trust.
No important project called innovation, the problems that we've ever addressed without risk.
You have to be willing to take those risks.
And that's the idea that I' d like to give you on the way, and failure is an alternative, fear, but thank you.
If I want to bring you a little bit closer today, it's that the totality of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts, and instead of thinking about information overload, I want you to think about how we can use information that patterns and we can see the trends that are otherwise un visible.
So what we're seeing here is a typical typical event that we see after age.
The program I used to use here is a little experiment.
It's called Pale ot and what I can do with P iv ot ie, is that I can filter a certain cause of death, we say crashes.
And immediately I see another pattern that makes it happen.
And that's because in the middle section, people are the most active and they' re on the most sensitive.
We can go out and rearrange the data then and see that circulation and cancer are the usual suspects, but not for everyone.
And when we go on and place age, we say 40 years or younger, we're going to see crashes even the leading cause of accidents is about to worry about.
And who's further, I think, is that' s true for men.
So you can see that reputation of information and data in this way, is to mimic a living information graphics and a living drawing.
And if we can do this for raw data, why can't we do it for content ourselves?
So what we've got here is the cover of every single "sports Ac counting, which ever have been printed.
It's all here. It' s all online.
You can test it after my talk in your bedroom.
With P iv ot, they can dive into a decade.
They can dive into one particular year.
You can jump directly to a certain copy.
So now, if I look here, I see the athletes coming in this issue and the sports of sports.
I'm an opportunity Armstrong, so I click on this way, and I' m going to show all of my spending spending in the room where Lance Armstrong is mentioned.
Now, if I just want to get a co - largest overview, I could think, "Okay, what if I look at all the topic of bicycle ?"
So I go back and I'll take another step back and try to look at the perspective.
Now I see Greg Le mond.
And so you get an idea of that if you search on this kind of information, more specific, more expansive, zoom in, zoom out, you don't just look out, you don' t just look like it or browse.
You do something that's actually a little different.
It's something in between and we think it changes the way information can be used.
So I want to elaborate this idea a little bit about what a little bit crazy.
What we've done here is we took all single Wikip ed ians as to a small summary of a small summary.
So the summary contains a quick record of a symbol for the area that comes out.
I just show the top 500 of the most popular Wikip ed Wikip ed ians.
But even in that limited view, we can do a lot of things.
Immediately, we get a sense of the topics that are popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to choose the issue of government.
Now, after I chose government's government, I realize that the Wikip ed ians who are most covers to cover Time magazine.
And this is really important because this is a realization that isn't attached to a single Wikip ed Wikip ed ians.
And that's just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing.
So if you look at a specific summaries, I can go into the Time magazine "people of the year ," and all of them see together.
Now, if I look at all these people, I realize that the majority of government officials are, some from science, some of the science, some are coming from the economy, and here's my boss, and one comes from the music section.
And interestingly, Bono is also a TED Prize winner.
So we can jump and throw a look at all TED Prize winner.
You see, we surf the web the first time it's actually a web, not just from side, but much more abstract.
And so I want to show you what a little surprise might be.
I'm just going to show you the New York Times website.
PP, this application -- I don't want to call it a browser; it' s really not a browser, but you can look at websites -- and we bring these Zo om om into every single website like this.
So I can go back and jump right to a specific sem blance.
And that's why it' s important because you can only look through pages of websites in this way, and the whole Internet course, the same way that you can look at the same way.
So I can zoom in on my course and zoom in on a certain frame.
Here's the state of the demonstration that I kept thinking up there until here.
And I can sort of look at everything I've seen today, get back.
And when I pulled out a step back and look at everything, I can arrange my trajectory for my search past, and here I've been looking for a little bit called "ne ot istic ," here after B ing, or here live Labs.
And from here, I can go inside and put it back up.
It's a metaphor that' s used over and over again, every time it makes a big picture bigger than the sum of the data.
Right now, in this world, we think data is a curse.
We talk about the curse of the information flow.
We're talking about drowning in information.
What if we could turn around this situation and turn the Internet on its head so that instead of going to go from one to another, we start to go from many things to many things, and by detecting patterns that otherwise would be hidden?
If we can do this, this final data trap, maybe a new source of information is going to be full of information.
And instead of just moving into information, we can get knowledge from it.
And if we learn knowledge, then maybe we can even draw wisdom from it.
And I'm listening to that, thank you very much.
Everyone speaks about happiness today.
I have spent some people counting the number of books that were published with Happiness in the past five years, and they gave about 40 years, and they gave about 40, and there were a lot more.
There's a massive wave of interest in happiness among researchers.
There's a lot of happiness coach ing.
Everyone would like to make happier.
But despite all these tide of work, there are multiple cognitive traps that makes it almost impossible to think about happiness.
And my talk today is mainly about these cognitive traps.
This is true for La ia who thinks about their own happiness, and it's true for scientists who think about happiness because it turns out we' re just as messy as everyone else.
The first of these traps is a paradox, which is a complexity.
It turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore, because we apply it to many different things.
I think there's a certain meaning that we could limit it to, but in large and large, that' s something we need to give up, and we're going to take up the complicated view of what' s being well - being.
The second trap is a change of experience and memory: basically it's between happy in his life and happy his life or happy with his life.
And these are two very different concepts, and they're both thrown together in the idea of happiness.
And the third is the concentration of mind, and that's the unfortunate fact that we can' t think about a situation that influences being well without compromising its meaning.
I mean, this is a real cognitive trap.
There's simply no way to get it right.
Now, I would like to start with one example from someone who had a question and answer - and - answer session after one of my lectures, who said, [unclear] He would have heard a symphony, and it was absolutely gorgeous music, and it was absolutely gorgeous music, and it was a terrible rap torial on the end of the sound.
And then he added, really, really, really emotionally, that's ruined all the experience.
But that didn't have it.
What it ruined, it had the memories of the experience.
He had had the experience.
He had had had 20 minutes of music.
They didn't miss out because he was still with a memory, the memory was ruined, and the memory was everything he could keep trying to keep it.
What we really say is that we could think about ourselves and thinking about other people in the sense of two species of self.
There's a real experience of self living in the present and the present tense is capable of experiencing the past, but essentially the present.
It's the kind of de corps es, the doctor' s office -- you know, if the doctor asks, "Do it hurt now when I summarize you ?"
And then there's a reminder of self, and the vaginal self is that counts and the story of our lives, and it' s the one that speaks to the physician by asking the question: "How did you feel lately ?"
or "How did your journey be put to Albania ?" or something like that.
These are two very different boxes, the self - assem bles, the shower self - making, and the two is part of the mess of the term happiness.
Well, the locker self is a storyteller.
And this really starts with a fundamental response to our memories -- it starts instantly.
We're not just telling stories about telling us stories about telling us.
Our memory tells us stories, which means that we have to keep in our experiences experience, is a story.
And let's start with an example.
There's an old study.
These are real patients that are doing a painful procedure.
I'm not going to go into the details of this day, and it' s not painful, but it was painful than this study in the 1990s.
They were asked to report all 60 seconds about their pain.
And here are two patients. These are their records.
And you're asked, "Who of both suffered more ?"
And that's a very simple question.
Patient B clearly has suffered more, and his gut level was longer, and every minute of pain, the patient A had patient B, and more.
But now there's another question: "How very much thought these patients were suffering ?"
And here's a surprise.
And the surprise is that patient A has much worse grades in memory at the gut level when patient had.
The stories of the gut level were different, and because a very important part of history is how it ends.
And no one of these stories is very, very large, but one of them is clear, but one of them is clearly worse than the other.
And the ones that worse is the fact that the pain was very close to its peak, and it's a terrible story.
How do we know that?
Because we asked these people to their gut level, and also much later, "How bad was the whole thing ?"
She was much worse for A than B in recalling it.
Well, that's a direct conflict between experiencing self and remembering self - awareness.
In the view of the self, B clearly had a worse time.
Now, what you could do with patient A, and we actually did clinical trials, and it's been done, and it' s actually worked, you could actually extend the gut level of patient by simply making the tube in there without very much to shake it.
And that's what' s going to lead to the patient is suffering, but just a little bit less than before.
And if you do that for a few minutes, you have made a difference that the su icides are a worse off of the patient, and you have made that chance to make the adult mate is much better off, because now you have given patient a better story about his experience.
What does a story look like?
And that's true of the stories that memory provides us and it' s also true for the stories we invent.
What happens is a story of inquiry, significant moments and ends.
And ends up being very, very important, and in this case, dominant.
Well, the most refined of the sudden self - life.
It has moments of life, one after another.
And you ask, what happens with these moments?
And the answer is really simple, and they're lost forever.
I mean, most moments of our lives -- and I've calculated the one -- you know, the psychological presence of about three seconds, and what does mean, you know that there are about 600 million of them in a month, and in a month, there are about 600, 000 of them leaving behind them.
Most of them are completely ignored by the self.
And yet, you kind of get the impression that they should count on what's happening during these moments of life.
It's the finite resource that we consume during this world.
And as we use it seems to be important, but that's not the story that the exo is keeping us for us.
So we have the locker room and the self - assem bles, and they're really quite different.
The biggest difference between them is dealing with time.
And from the perspective of self - encountering a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first one, the two weeks vacation is twice as good as the week vacation.
This is not how it works for the occasional community that's not working for the gift of multiplying.
For the Uber self is hardly a two - week vacation, much better than the week vacation because there's no new memories.
They didn't change history.
And in this way, time is actually the critical variable that can remember one of the self - life experiences from a self, and time has very little impact on this story.
Well, the locker self makes more than remembering and telling stories.
It's actually the one that makes decisions because if you have a patient who told us two gut levels of gut levels in two different surgeons and decides what to vote is, then the message that he chooses who is less bad, and that is the surgeon who is chosen.
The extr aneous self has no voice in that choice.
In fact, we don't choose between experiences and experiences that are in memories.
And even if we think about the future, we don't usually think about our future as experiences.
We think about our future as a predictive memory.
And basically, you can look at this, you know, as an tyranny of self, and you can think of the locker for the person, and you can sort of push the locker with the family and learn the most su itors don't need the self - assembly.
And I have the idea that if we're going to leave vacation with a lot of the case, that means we' re going to leave vacation with a long way to remind ourselves of self.
And that's a little bit difficult to justify, I think.
I mean, how much do we expect our memories?
This is one of the explanations that will remind the dominance of the self.
And when I think about it, I think on a vacation that we've made a few years ago on Antarctica, which was clearly the best vacation I' ve ever had, and I think relatively often in relation to how many other vacation I think.
And I've probably heard about my memories of this three - week journey, and I would say about 25 minutes long since the last four years.
Now, if I ever opened the folder of the 600 images in it, I would have spent another hour.
Well, these are three weeks, and it's only a half - hour.
There seems to be a incongr uity.
Well, I like a little bit extreme, you know how little appetite I have on the toe pad, but even if you do more of it, there's a real question, why do we give memories so much weight in losing weight?
So I want you to think about a thought experiment.
Imagine their next vacation, you know that at the end of the vacation nights, you'll get rid of all your images, and you' ll get an Amnesty drug so you'll remember nothing.
Now, would you choose the same vacation? And if you'd choose another vacation, there' s a conflict between your two species and you have to think about how you decide that conflict and that's really not obvious, because if you think of time in the sense, you' re going to have an answer, and if you think about the memory of some other things you might get a different answer.
Why do we choose the vacation we choose to choose a problem that provides us with a choice between the two species of self.
Well, the two species of self - throw two words from happiness.
There are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply, one per self.
So you can ask, how happy is the raising of the self - assembly?
And then you would ask: How happy are the moments in life experience the self?
And they're all -- happiness for moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measured?
And by the way, we're able to get a pretty good idea of happiness from the time to experience self - awareness.
If you remember the lucky self, it's a completely different thing.
This is not a person who lives in the future.
It's about how satisfied or delighted the person when this person thinks about her life.
Very different term.
Everyone who doesn't differ from these words, will be able to document exploration of happiness, and I' m one of the researchers who are experiencing happiness for long - term happiness in this particular way.
The distinction between the happiness of the experience of self and happiness is the self - satisfaction of the self - being self - recognized self - being in the last few years, and now you're trying to measure the two - dimensional.
The Gallup Organization has been asked a global survey that has been asked more than half a million people to ask about what they think about their lives and over their experiences, and there were other efforts in the direction.
So in the last few years, we started learning about happiness among the two species of self.
And the main lesson that we think is that they're really different.
You can know how happy someone with his life is, and it doesn't teach them much about how happy he lives and vice versa.
Just to give you a sense of correlation, that correlation is about five.
What that means is that if you hit someone, you would say, oh, his father is a two - meter man, how much would you know about your size?
Well, you would know something about its size, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
They have so much uncertainty.
If I tell you that someone else has turned his life on a scale from 10, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his self.
So the correlation is low.
We know something about what happiness is self - expression.
We know that money is very important, goals are very important.
We know that happiness mostly means to be satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like.
There are other pleasure, but that's dominant.
So if you want to maximize happiness in the two species of self, you will end up doing very different things.
And the conclusion from what I said here is that we really shouldn't think of happiness as a replacement for well - being.
It's a completely different term.
Well, very briefly, another reason we can't think about happiness is that we don' t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live.
So if you ask the simple question, how happy people are in California, you're not going to get the right answer.
If you ask that question, you think that people in California have to be happier if you say we live in Ohio.
And what happens is that if you think about life in California, think about the difference between California and other places, and that difference is what we say in the climate.
Well, it turns out that climate is not very important for the su asion self, and it's not even very important for finding myself who decides how happy people are.
But now, because this is responsible self - responsibility, you can end up with some people at the end of California.
And it's kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to California hoping to become happier.
Now, you're not going to get happier.
We know that.
But one thing will happen, and they'll think they' re happier, because if they think about it, they're going to be remembered as terrible weather in Ohio, and they' re going to feel they've made the right decision.
It's very difficult to think about well - being, and I hope I' ve given you a sense of how difficult it is.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. I have a question for you.
Thank you.
Now, when we've been talking to the phone a few weeks ago, you' ve talked to me about that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this Gallup survey.
Is this something that you can participate in, because now you have a few minutes left?
Daniel K man man, man - B. C.
I think the most exciting results that we found in the Gallup survey is a number that we didn't expect to find.
And we found that in terms of happiness, we're experiencing self.
When we looked at how feelings vary with income.
And it turns out that under a income of 60, 000 dollars a year, for Americans, and this is a very large sample of Americans, about 600, 000, but it's a big representative sample, under a income of 600, 000 dollars a year.
CA: 60, 000.
DK: 60, 000.
60, 000 dollars a year are unhappy people, and they become increasingly unhappy, ever more poorer, ever they will.
And we get a absolutely flat line.
I mean, I've rarely seen so flat lines.
What happens is obviously that money can't come up with an experience of happiness but that scarcity of money will come from a misery and we can measure this misery and we can measure it very clearly.
In the sense of self, the self, remember self, you get a different story.
The more money you deserve.
It's not true for emotions.
CA: But Danny, across the American endeavor, freedom, freedom, the pursuit of happiness.
If people took this deepest serious, I mean, it seems to put everything on your head, all we think, for example, in terms of tax policy and so on.
Is there a chance that politicians would take a major impact on the country in general and make based on politics?
DK: You know, I think there's recognition for the role of happiness in politics.
The recognition is slowly going to be slow in the United States, not a question, but in the U. K., it's happening and in other countries, it' s happening.
People are understanding that they should think of happiness when they think about politics.
It will take a while, and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience experience happiness or whether they want to study life review, so we need to lead this discussion pretty soon.
How to improve happiness is a very different way of thinking and whether you think about the locker room or whether you think about the cutting edge of the self - soul.
That's going to affect politics, I think, in the coming years.
In the United States, you tend to focus on measuring the experience of happiness.
That's what I think is going to be part or two decades of national statistics.
CA: Well, it seems to me, this subject will be, or at least the most exciting political debate should be tracking for the next few years.
Thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kel vin.
Today, I'm going to talk to you about energy and climate.
And that might surprise you, because my full time job jobs, mainly around vaccines and seed, to make the things we need to invent and deliver the poorest 2 billion to make a better life.
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, even more important than anyone on the planet.
It's worse in the worse condition, that their Save over many years, and it' s too much or too little rain, and things will change as it can't withstand their fragile environment.
This leads to hunger, and it leads to uncertainty, and it leads to ignorance.
So, climate change will become terrible for them.
And also, the price of energy is very important for them.
In fact, if you could reduce the price of poverty, poverty would be far more effective at the most effective.
Well, the price of energy has fallen over time.
In fact, the progress society is continuing on energy.
The coal wetsuits were made of the Industrial Revolution, and even in the 20th century, there was a rapid - collapse in electricity, and therefore we have refrigerators, the climate plants, we can make modern materials and do so many things.
So we're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
But if we cut down the price -- let's cut down the price -- we' ll hit a new barrier, and that barrier is associated with CO2.
CO2 warms up the planet and the equation for CO2 is actually pretty clear.
They're emitting this emitting the calcium CO2, which leads to temperature, and that temperature has increased very negative effects, and maybe worse, the erosion of the weather, that the natural ecosystems cannot adapt to such rapid change, and therefore all systems fall together.
Well, the exact correlation between a carbon increase, and by doing that, it makes a difference between temperature changes and where the other consequences are, there are some ambiguity, but not very many.
And there's certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are, but they' re going to be extremely bad.
I asked the top scientist several times, "Do we really need to get down to zero?
Enough half or a quarter ?"
And the answer is, until we get close to zero, the temperature will continue to go up.
And so it's a big challenge.
It's very different than saying, we have a three - foot truck that has to crush under a 3 - meter bridge, and then you can basically squeeze underneath it.
This is a little bit down here, zero.
Well, we're going to bump a carbon dioxide vessel, over 26 billion tons.
Every American, about 20 tons, people from poor countries, less than one.
On average, it's about 5 tons for every planet.
And somehow we need to bring change that down to zero.
It's been constant.
Just different economic changes at all, and we have to go down from a rapid decrease in reducing and reduce it up to zero.
This equation has four factors, a bit multi - multiplication, and you have this thing on the left - hand carbon, and it's dependent on the number of people who are dependent on the average of the human services that each person uses average energy to every service and the carbon per unit of energy that will be delivered.
So let's look at each one factor and think about how we get this zero.
Probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero.
Now this is basic algebra, but let's go through it.
First, we have the population.
Today, 6. 8 billion people live.
And it goes down to 9 billion, and it's moving to 9 billion.
If we're very successful with new vaccines, the disposal of health, to reproductive medicine, we might probably reduce that by 10 percent to 15 percent, but at the time we' re seeing a slope to 1. 3.
The second factor are the services we use.
And this includes all the food we eat, clothes, television, heating.
These are very good things and poverty allevi ation means to make these services accessible to almost any one on the planet.
It's great that this number goes up.
In the rich world, in the upper billion, we might be able to cut down tri b ors and use less, but average, that number will go up every year and double more than double, the number of services are provided per person.
So here we see a very basic service, is there at home light so you can read the homework?
And these students don't have it, so they go out and read their school tasks under the street.
Well, efficiency, the power per service, there's finally good news.
We have something that doesn't go up.
And because of different successes in the light sector, through other car phenoty ping, through new methods that can reduce the cost of building you dramatically can get cut down dramatically, 10 3. 5: 9: 11, 000 -- 1, 000 -- 53, 000 services -- a thousand services let go down 90 percent.
Some individual services are reducing 90 percent.
In other services like the land of soil ender, 105, 000 -- Philadelphia -- 58, 000 or a half -- 58, 000 or air traffic jams or low - volume skill range is very small.
In total, if we're optimistic, maybe we' ll get a reduction in size or maybe even by a factor 6.
But for the first three factors, we've now gone from 26 billion to the very best 13 billion tons, and that' s just not enough.
So let's look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that' s the amount of CO2 that's going to be broadcast per unit of energy.
It turns out whether you can get that to zero.
If you burn coal: No.
If you burn natural gas: No.
Almost every time that we do it, we use CO2, except the renewables and nuclear at all.
So what we need to do on a global level is to create a new system.
We need energy.
Now, if I use the term "wonder ," I don't mean the impossible.
The microprocessor is a miracle. The PC is a miracle.
The Internet and services are a miracle.
And people here have contributed to developing many of these miracles.
Normally, there's no deadline for a miracle to take a certain date.
Usually, you're just wrong with it, and some people don' t come.
But in this case, we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time.
Well, I asked myself, how can I really bring this over?
Is there a natural illustration, a demonstration that sparked the idea of human beings here?
I remembered last year when I brought mosquitoes and somehow people liked it.
The idea was really palpable; you know that there are people living with mosquitos.
And for energy, this was a guy.
I decided that the free release of fireflies would be my year - old contribution to the environment here.
So here's a few natural fireflies.
You've told me that they don' t bite. In fact, they're probably not going to leave the glass.
Well, there are all kinds of players who are more likely to be, but they don't get much.
We need solutions, either one or several that have unthinkable scaling and unthinkable; and even though there are many directions that people are searching for after that, I really see five who can afford these big requirements.
I have tides, geothermal, biofuel, let's leave out of biofuels.
And perhaps they're doing a moderate amount, and if they' re expecting better than I expect, this would be great, but my core statement here is that we need to work on all five of those five, and we can't give up one of them because they' re afraid, because they've all got significant problems.
Let's first look at burning fossil fuels, burn from either coal or natural gas.
What you need to do there may seem simple, but it's not. You' ve got to get all the carbon that comes from burning the chimneys that catch burning down below the slick, and then warehouse, and hope it stays there.
There are some pilot projects that are creating at a 60 percent level, but it's getting a big deal, it' s going to be very difficult, and a collision for the growth camp is a big challenge, but the biggest problem here is the lago on.
Who will make it safe?
Who can guarantee something that literally millions of times bigger than any kind of waste that you can imagine from nuclear and other things?
It's a lot of volume.
So this is a tough nut.
Next: nuclear fission is at the time.
And it also has three big problems, and the cost of all the highly unregulated countries are high, and the question for sure that you really feel nothing can go wrong despite the human work that the fuel is not used for weapons.
And what do you do with the waste?
Because even though it's not very big, there' s a lot of concerns.
People have to feel good at this, and in 18 4, 000 -- 10, 000 -- 00 1: 25, 000, so three very difficult problems that might be solvable.
So three very difficult problems that might be solvable, and that's why we should work.
The last three of the five, I put together.
It's the renewables they' re often called.
And also, though it's great that they don' t need fuel -- they have some downside.
One is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power of power plants.
These are energy farms, and you're talking about many square kilometers, and a thousand times more land than a normal power plant.
And then, among those sources, these sources of interruptions.
The sun doesn't seem the whole day, it doesn' t seem to be the same day, and it doesn't hurt the wind every day.
And so you have to depend on these sources, if you're dependent on these sources, your energy will be available in times if you' re not available to get there.
So there's a big prize out there, and there' s challenges in transmission, and if we say that the energy source is outside the country, you don't just need the technology, you also need to deal with the risk that the energy from where it comes from.
And there's a storage problem.
And to show the dimension of the dimension, I've made all kinds of batteries built, looked at the cars, computer phones, textures for everything, and that' s what I've got to use with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses, compared to me that all the batteries we now produce less than 10 minutes of the energy stored energy.
So we need a big breakthrough, something that is going to be 100 percent better than the approach approaches to time.
It's not impossible, but it' s not that easy.
And that happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent of the consumption.
If you want to rely on 100 percent, you need an incredible battery.
Now, where are we going to go, what is the right approach?
A Manhattan project? How do we get to the target?
What we need is a lot of companies working on it. Hundreds of companies.
In each of these five areas, we need at least 100 people.
And you'll say, well, these are crazy! That' s good.
I think there are many people in the TED group who are already engaged in there.
Bill L has several companies, among other things, a called solar - sized creature has invented the great equivalent of technologies.
Vincent K rem lin is invested in dozens of companies making great things and interesting opportunities, and I try to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I fund a company that might surprise you, who is a nuclear approach.
There are some innovations in the nuclear section; modular, liquid.
The development in this industry stopped a few time ago, so it's not a big surprise that some good concepts are around.
So the Ter wing idea means that instead of one part of the uranium, which one percent of the U 2 35, we decided to burn the 99 percent, the U. K.
This is a pretty crazy idea.
But in fact, you've been thinking about it for a long time, but you' ve never been able to simulate it properly, but since then we've been doing modern supercomputer, you can simulate it and see that yes, yes! With the right materials, it looks like it' s functional.
And because you burn these 99 percent, the cost profile is very much better.
In fact, you burn the waste, and you can even use the waste of today as a propulsion system.
Instead of breaking their head, you just burn it. It's a great thing.
The uranium is going to take a little bit like a candle.
You see it's a kind of pillar, often known as "walking wave of reactor ."
That really solves the fuel problem.
Here's a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is the waste, the 99 percent of you have the part that's burned down today, so it' s called out uranium.
That drives the U. S. for hundreds of years.
And if you're cheap and easy to dig it, you' ll get enough fuel for the rest of the planet's lifetime.
You know, there are many challenges, but it's an example of many hundreds of ideas that we need to get forward.
Let's think about how we should measure our success.
What should our testimony look like?
Well, let's go to the target we need to reach and then talk about the step.
Many talk about an 80 percent reduction in 2050.
It's really important that we get there.
The rest of 20 percent are produced in poor countries, and still there's a agriculture, and hopefully it' s going to be a forest raw and cement until that's going to clean.
So to get those 80 percent, the developed world, including countries like China, to change their electricity generation.
The other note says whether we use zero emissions in technology, whether it's used in all developed countries, and we' re on the way to get them to the rest.
That's really important.
This is a key piece of this report card.
If we go back from there, what should the report card look like by 2020?
It should contain the two elements again.
We should use the efficiency measures to get reduction on the way, the less we enter, the less we enter, the less carbon sum will be the carbon sum and therefore temperature.
But actually, this note is the things that we do, which are not entirely leading to the large reduce market level, just or even slightly less important like the other, which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs.
And these breakthroughs are the full gas, and we can measure that in companies, in pilot projects, and regulations, change governance change.
There are many great books on this issue.
The Al Gore book "We have the choice and David Mc Ka thr ain't Energy Ho liday Energy W att ends ."
They really go through and create a framework where this can be discussed in the broad range, because we need to help support all sides.
There are some things that need to come together.
This is a wish.
A very concrete wish we invent this technology.
If you just give me a wish for the next 50 years, I could choose the president, a vaccine, and I love that wish, or I could choose that wish that half - controlled energy will take without CO2. This wish I would take.
This has the biggest impact.
If we don't get this wish, the rift in the long - term people will be terrible between the United States and China, between poor and poor countries, and almost all of these two billion will be worse.
So what do we need to do?
For which measures me to appeal?
We need to use more research money for more research money.
If countries are making themselves at the same core pha ge, they shouldn't just talk about CO2.
You should discuss this innovation strategy, and you would be shocked by the low - sharp funds spent on these innovative approaches.
We need market balance, carbon taxes, Cap & Trade, something that a price will make a price signal.
We need to spread the message.
We need to have dialogue rational and full of full and also the things that are done by government.
It's a more important wish, but I think we can fulfill him.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Just to understand Ter ra power slightly better -- first time, can you give us an idea of scale of this investment?
Bill Gates: To run the simulation on a supercomputer, get all the great scientists, what we've done, we just need to test a few 10 million, and even if we tested our materials in a Russian reactor to make sure it' s reasonable, it's just in the 100 million.
The hard step is building the first site at the site, finding another billion, the regulation of the first building is actually building the first place.
Once the first thing is done, when it's going to be like promised, it' s all clear, because the economy that's dense in energy as different at nuclear fission, how we know it.
CA: To understand that properly, that means building deep in the ground almost like a vertical fuel, this degrading uranium fuel, and then the process starts to go down?
BG: Exactly. Today, you have to fill the reactor in a new way, so there are lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong, and this thing that you open it and puts things inside, or turns out, that's not good!
But if you have very cheap fuel, you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column that you bury without the whole complex ities.
And it's sitting there and it' s burning for 60 years, and then it's finished.
CA: A nuclear reactor that offers itself a solution to the garbage.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens to the waste: You can sit it -- there's a lot less waste with this method -- then take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it.
And we start by taking the waste that's already there that' s already in these cold - basin - hole parking lot, dry cleaners. This is our starting burning fuel.
So what's a problem for these reactors is a problem that we fill in our lives and therefore reduce waste volume, while this process is going to slow down.
CA: But while you've talked to different people in this world about these possibilities.
Where is the most interested in creating this kind of thing?
BG: Well, we haven't set ourselves up a place, and there' s a lot of interesting open rules for everything that's called nuclear, and there' s a big interest and the people of the company in Russia, India -- I was here and I've met the Minister of energy in Russia, China and I' ve talked about how this fits into energy.
I'm optimistic. You know, the French and Japanese have made something in the direction.
This is a version of one thing that was done.
And this is a really important step forward, but it's like a reactor, and some countries built this, so that' s why everyone who has done a quick reactor for our first.
CA: In your mind, timeline, and probability and calling something really to live in life?
BG: Well, we need one of these scalable things that are very cheap, we've got 20 years to invent and then put 20 years into a position.
This is sort of the deadline line that has shown us the environment models that we need to hold.
And, you know, Ter race power when everything's fine, and that' s a big wish, could it be easy.
And luckily, there are dozens of companies today, and we need hundreds of them, just as if their approaches work that can provide for their pilots to do it.
And it would be best if it could do multiple, because then you could use a mixture.
Anyway, we need a solution.
CA: care shrinking of the big breakthroughs, this is the best you know?
BG: A energy break through the sea is the most important one.
And that would have been the same for the environment, but it's also doing so much more important.
In nuclear sector, there are other innovative companies.
You know, we don't know whose work is not as good as these, but there' s the modular method, which is another approach.
There's a liquid housing that seems difficult for us, but maybe they' re telling us about us.
And so there are different, but the beautiful thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one, we say, a coal molecule and therefore, if you can deal with problems and the cost of the footprint, the footprint and the cost, the effects, the effects of the country and the other things almost in their own league.
CA: If that doesn't work, what would it do?
Do we need emergency work, to try to try to keep the Earth temperature stable?
BG: If you come to this situation, it's like you' ve eaten too much, and just before you get a heart attack, what do you do? You might need a heart surgery or something like that.
There's a research facility called Geo Goering, who' s called a variety of techniques to delay warming so that we would have 20 or 30 years longer to get us together.
This is just an insurance method.
You hope that we don't need it.
Some people say you shouldn't work at all because you might have done that too lazy so you keep eating, because you know that you' re going to save your heart surgery.
I don't know if this is smart, if you' re going to lead the importance of this problem, but now there's a discourse in Cancun that we have to have in progress, if things need to get faster, or that innovation needs longer than we expect.
CA: Climate change den iers: Have you had one or two sentences for whom you might be persuaded?
BG: Well, unfortunately, the skeptics are living in very different camps.
Those who make scientific arguments are very little.
Tell them that there are negative effects that we have to do with clouds moving things?
There are very, very few things that can tell you about at all, that there's a chance in a million.
The main problem here is, like AIDS.
You make the mistake now, and you pay a lot later.
And so the idea is that if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you've got later on -- and it' s because the investment is not so clear, and in fact, the IPCC are not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world who look at the IPCC and say, okay, this is not a big drama.
The fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried.
But my dream here is that if you can do economic economic, and at the same time, the skeptics say, "Okay, I don't care about it that it doesn' t do any carbon investigation, I would almost wish it did, but I'm going to accept it because it' s cheaper than the previous method ."
CA: And that would be your answer to the B j ork, then that if you use all these time and energy to solve the CO2 problem, the poverty line is to reduce the poverty, to fight the fighting of malaria and so on that there's a stupid waste of resources to invest in money while there' s better things that we can do.
BG: Well, the actual spending on research -- let's say that the U. S. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that' s not so dramatic.
Below that, they shouldn't suffer.
You're going to hum med up to great money, and here you can disagree with a sensible person if you' ve got something that's not economic, and try to fund that, because for me, most of the waste is happening.
Because it's because you' re very short before a cost of fracture, and it's only funded by the learning curve, and I think we should try to try more things that have the potential to be much less expensive.
If the worst of the quadriplegic you get is a very high energy price, only the rich will keep up.
I mean, each of us here could spend five times as much of our energy without changing the lifestyle.
But for the bottom two billion, it's a disaster.
And even L om then, then you go to the museum.
His new M pocket is now: "Why is the research not going to be discussed ?"
He's still associated with his earlier stories associated with the skeptic camp, but he understood that this is a very lonely group, and so he' s now bringing the research argument.
And this is a thought process that I think is appropriate for this.
Research, it's just crazy how little it' s supporting.
CA: Bill, I think I'm talking for almost all of the people here when I say, I really hope your wish will come true. Thank you so much.
BG: Thank you.
I'd like to tell you a little bit about what I' ve been writing about a piece of paper a few months ago.
I always have been willing to explain to you my career method, but I was ready to work with the wiring of the text, and I noticed that I've never beaten up in my life, which means "disabled" really means disabled ."
I'll read you the post.
"disabled ," adject ives," smashed ", drunk, destroyed, wounded, wounded, wounded, beaten, drifted away, un se vers ed, hollowed out, cut un forgiving, paralyzed, paralyzed, paralyzed, paralyzed, paralyzed, un se ff, paralyzed, un se ater, de se ater, de - fired, dried, dried, dried, dried, mutil ates.
Ant ony: Healthy, strong, powerful, powerful ."
I read this list of friend loud, and I had to laugh at once, it seemed so ridiculous, but I just came up to the "and couldn't talk anymore, and I had to stop reading and gather myself after this case, and then we' d go through this kind of sp rang a lot of light and connected the emotional shock shock shock.
Of course, this was a sophisticated dictionary, synonymous with a dictionary, and I just thought that the copy needs to be pretty old.
But in fact, it was a copy of the early 1980s, when I started working with elementary school, and that started to build my self - image outside of my family environments, and also shape with other kids and the rest of the world around me.
And thank God, I didn't use synonymous with that time.
If I took this post seriously, I was born in a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose lives can be lost in a mortal way, but today I'm going to be a good job for the opportunities and adventure I' ve ever been.
So I immediately called the online edition of 2009, and I expected that I find a little more engaging in this.
Here's the updated version of this post.
Unfortunately, it's not much better.
Specifically, the last two words under "ne's speakers" are very "and" healthy ."
But it's not just the words.
It's about what we think about the people we describe with these words.
It's about the values that stick in these words, and how we construct these values.
Our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and people around us.
Many ancient species of ancient species, including the Greeks and the Romans, really believed that the pronunciation has a big force because what you're talking aloud, too.
So what do we actually want to manifest themselves in the face -- an disabled people or a powerful human?
Just imagine if you're going to call an eight - minute kid, enough to limit them, and they' re doing ideas about their gut.
Wouldn't it be nice to open your doors?
A human who opened open doors to me was my pediatrician, and I. You name the Z ont at W att ton in W aw ton.
He's called Dr. P iz am ill. A blinds American whose name you can think most Americans couldn' t name properly, so he was always called Dr. P.
And Dr. P. P. was always wearing very colored flight for children with just how they created.
I found the time I spent in this hospital just great -- until my physical physical physi o Vill ator.
I had to do every single exercise seemingly infinite, elastic B ous B -- in different colors -- you know, to build my leg muscles, and I hated these tapes more than anything else, and I hated them. I hated them. I hated them.
And imagine, I even started having a five - year - old child with Dr. P. P. P. and tried to stop those exercises, of course without success.
And one day he watched me go through one of my exercises -- these exercises were just tiring and go off -- and he said to me, "Wow, Aimee, you're so strong and young girls, you' ll tear one day off one of those tapes.
And if you make it, I give you 100 dollars ."
And of course, this was just a simple trick of Dr. P., so I do the exercises I didn't want to do with the prospect of becoming the richest five - year - old girl in the second floor, but he actually brought me to see my daily exercises with new eyes, so this became a new and promising experience.
And I'm going to ask myself today how much his vision of me has shaped as strong and powerful young girl, and I could imagine that as a powerful, powerful, powerful and climb in climbing human beings.
This is just an example of many, like adults in power positions that can stimulate the imagination of a child.
But as the quote quote from predicting how to explain dictionaries does not allow us to imagine what we would all wish to do: to give each individual, to see it as a powerful person to see themselves.
Our language has been pushed behind the societal changes that have been caused by a technological change.
From the medical standpoint, of course, you can say that my legs, the laser - enabled grasping tree ship gers and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use their possibilities and evolve beyond the limits that they've set out to develop natural destiny, not even speak about social networks, networking, allow them to create their own identity, create a kind of identity,
and they're orient ated by groups around the world that they choose themselves.
So maybe this technology is really compelling, because the more exciting fact that there was always a different truth, which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful and that the human ability to adapt, our biggest asset is our biggest asset.
The human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story, because people always ask me about how I go and make a difference, and I'm going to tell you something: this sentence has never fit for me, and I' ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people, and I think I understand why.
And this sentence of dealing with adversity is living from the idea that success or luck depends on a challenge without being shaped by the connected experience, and as if my life would be so successful, because I could run the impossible by a life of a prosthetic limb or the shock of a prosthetic experience, or how people could perceive me with my disability.
But the truth is that we change, of course, we're human - shaped challenge, whether it' s physical, emotionally or even both.
And I'm saying that' s good.
And odds are no obstacle that we need to get better at making our lives better.
And odds are simply against our lives.
And I tend to see against what makes my shadow.
Sometimes I realize that he's very present, sometimes he' s hardly seeing, but he's always at me.
And I don't want to have any impact or the severity of the fight of a human.
There are challenges in life and challenges, and they are only too real, and each person is going to go differently, but the question is not whether we get with adversity or not, but how we get to it.
So we're not just responsible for allowing people to keep in mind more than adventure, but they also prepare to get good at getting.
And we don't do a favor when we give them the feeling that they can' t adapt.
You have to break two things: one of the medical fact that you can be an amputee, and the other social opinion about whether I'm disabled or not.
And to be honest, the only real and sustained sustained disability that I had to break apart is that the world always means that it could describe me to this definitions.
In our wish to protect people who are at heart and to announce them the cold, hard truth about their medical forecast or even to give a prediction of quality of life that they expected, we need to look after the foundation that someone is actually disabled.
Maybe the idea is the moment - looking concept that is just what's broken in a broken way, and how we fix it, for every single greater disability than the pathology.
If we treat a human not entirely unification, and not all of its forces and possibility and recognizing that we're going to also create more natural struggle that they may have to lead, another disease.
We de classify ourselves a human worth for our society.
So we need to look beyond the patho logy and focus on all the human possibilities.
But most importantly, there's between perception and our great inventor of our flaws, a connection.
We should not deny that challenging times or deny, we shouldn't try to avoid them, nor should we turn them under the rug, but it' s about recognizing odds.
I think it's probably about asking me to make sure that we don' t necessarily have to overcome advers ities, but that we are open to embrace them and put them on the pot and use a struggle to use and maybe even dance with it.
And maybe we can do it, and we can see it against something natural, coherent and useful and useful, and feel that way through their presence.
In this year, we celebrate the 200 th birthday of Charles Darwin and when he wrote about 150 years ago about evolution, Darwin, in my eyes, we were noted in a very real sense of human character.
I would write it like this: not the most powerful way of surviving, and also not the smartest of his species, but the one that can adjust to the best.
There are creativity coming from conflict.
Not only from Darwin's work, we know that the ability of human beings to survive and flourishing is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform conflict.
So again, change and adaptation are the greatest capacity of human beings.
And maybe we just know what wood we're doing when we' re really being tested.
Perhaps that's exactly what makes sense of adversity, a perception of what I' m, a sense of our own power.
We can give ourselves something like this.
We can make advers ities make a new meaning beyond severe times.
Maybe we can see advers ities as change.
And odds are a change that we haven't adapted to.
I think the biggest damage we have added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal.
Let's face it?
There's no normal.
There's the usual, the guy. But not the normal, and you would really want to know that poor, gray person really want to know if they really were there?
I don't think I' m afraid.
It would be great if we could release this paradigm of normality, or strength, to even be able to articulate it even might be a little more dangerous, exchange, so we can release the forces of very many children, and invite them to bring their very special and valuable capabilities into society.
An anthropologist, we have always figured out that we've always needed a noble and to make a contribution to people.
There are hints at that Neanderthals had been 60, 000 years ago old people and people with severe physical injuries, and that might happen because the life experience was precious for survival of these people to survive.
They didn't look at these people as broken and useless; they were treated as something special and valuable.
A few years ago, I went to the city I grew up in a food market in the northeast zone in the northeast of Pennsylvania, and I stood there in front of a tomato.
It was summer, and I had Sh ree.
And I hear a guy behind me saying, "Well, if that's not Aimee Mull ins ."
And I'm going to look around and see this older man, and I had no idea who he is.
And I said, "Sorry, sir, do we know? I can't remember you ."
And he said, "Well, you'll hardly remember me.
When I first saw you, I took you out of your stomach ."
Oh, that's the one.
And of course, it's what it' s done.
This was Dr. Kean, a man I knew only from a story of my mother about this day because of course, I was typical to go to my birthday two weeks later.
The doctor for G ind uction of my mother was on vacation, and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all.
And because without W ires legs, I had been born, and my feet were pointing at them, and I had just a few toes on the other foot at the other foot, he had to bring the over the sp ies, this stranger had to bring the bad news.
He said to me, "I had to tell your parents you'd never walk, and would never be as moving as other kids, or you could never lead an independent life, and since you just got me lying ."
I really found out that he had collected newspaper samples from my entire childhood, no matter if I won a spelling competition in the second class, whether I had the fin ners at the same time, whether I had been my scholarship or a sports scholarship, and he used those clips to teach his students in medicine from H anni bal t School teaching students from Medicine and young students from Cab inet of Medicine
And he called this part of his course, the X factor, the potential of human will.
You can't just emphasize enough how critical this factor of life can be for human quality.
And Dr. Kean told her, he said, "I've learned that kids when they don' t always get anything else, and even if they get a little bit of support, if you can get kids on themselves, then children can get a lot better ."
See Dr. Kean changed his thinking.
He understood that medical diagnosis, and as someone has to deal with it, two different things are.
And I also changed my thinking over the course of time when they asked me at age 15, whether I had traded my prostheses for legs and bone, I wouldn't have been hes itated.
I really wanted to work normal then.
And if you ask me this today, I'm not sure.
And this is what happened, W I L I have experienced something with my legs and not T RO T of these experiences.
And perhaps that change could happen also because I've met so many people who have opened my doors, instead of hitting people who are restrictive to me or trying to make a sense of their own gut.
See, it really takes just one person who can show you how you manifest your powers, and you're through.
If you allow someone to activate their own inner forces, the human spirit is so willing -- if you can do that, if you can open it for someone in a critical moment, open a door for those people, you're a very good teacher.
They bring them up to open doors themselves.
The real meaning of the word "you've been roots in root" to root "to" othe L ."
It means to produce something that's in one way to tickle the potential.
Again, what potential do we want to get access to?
In the 1960s, in the 1960s, a case study, a lot of school families were being transformed in total schools.
They call this "Fr aming - like" in the United States, we call it a tracking device.
The students are divided into grades.
And the A student gets far more studied, the better teachers get on board and so on.
And then over a three - month period of students with a "Out of the note" Very good ," and they told them they were As se vered, they were very smart, and after these three months, they really wrote a really smart one.
And of course, it breaks down to hear a heart that the other people said that the other students were told they were just sufficient.
And then it was also about the three months.
But only those who still were in school -- besides the students who had thrown school.
And it was very important to this study that the teachers weren't locked in.
The teachers didn't know that something was changed.
They were simply told that the A student student is enough, and the students are sufficient, and they've taught them something and treated them.
The only disability is a broken mind that broke loose mind, has no hope, no longer finds hope, and he doesn't find anything beautiful, but he lacks our natural curiosity, curiosity, and our innate ability of imagination.
But if we create it, to support the human spirit in this process, continue to hope, to find yourself and other people around us beautiful, curious and fanciful ie Club, then we really set our powers positive.
If a mind has these qualities, we can create a new reality and create new existence.
I want to end with a poem written by a Persian poet called H ices ter in the 14th century, and I've been told by my friend Jacques Cousteau, and the poem is called "The God who knows only four words ,"" Every child knows the god, not the god of God, but the God knows the god of words, but the god only knows all the words and he says to me, "Come on ."
Come on, walk with me. Thank you.
