A few years ago, here at TED, Peter Singer asked a design competition called "The marshmallow challenge ."
The idea is pretty simple, and four teams have to build the biggest possible - free structure with 20 spaghetti, about 1 tape, about 1 meters of thread and building a marshmallow.
The marshmallow must be on top.
And even though it really seems simple, it's actually really hard because it' s hard to work very fast.
And so I thought this is an interesting idea, and I turned it into a design workshop.
It was a huge success.
Since then, I've done about 70 workshops worldwide with students, developers and architects, even with CT oscill ators of Fortune 50 companies, and there' s something about this task that allows deep impressions to collaborate in nature, and I want to share some of them with you.
Usually most people start orient ate themselves in terms of management.
They talk about what it's going to look like, they ran out of power.
And then you invest a little bit of time in planning and organization. They scri bbling spaghetti.
They invest a lot of their time in the process of building increasing structures.
And finally, just before they don't have time anymore, someone takes the marshmallow and they stick it gently down to the tip, step back and "T da, they admire their work.
But what happens, almost always, is that the ta - da, "becomes a" uh - oh ," because the weight of the marshmallow are causing the whole thing to do and fall down.
There's a number of people who have much more "ooh - oh moments than others, and under the worst, fresh ener.
They lie, they lie, they're confused, and they' re really stupid things.
And of course, there are teams who have much more "ta" -- and under the best, new graduates of children are at all.
And this is pretty amazing.
As Peter told us, they don't only produce the highest towers, but also the most interesting structures of all.
So what they might ask is, how does that come? Why?
And Peter tells us, "None of the children's lives in the spaghetti sauce ."
They don't invest time in power fights.
But there's another reason.
And that's that B W L students were trained to find a real plan, okay!
And then realizing it.
What happens when they put the marshmallow on the top, they don't have time and what happens?
It's a crisis.
Sounds familiar, what?
What kindergarten kids do differently is they start building prototypes and build prototypes, successful prototypes, always with the marshmallow, so that they have multiple times the possibility of fixing new prototypes.
constructs, they recognize this kind of cooperation as the core of a Lat ina.
And with every attempt, the children are getting immediate feedback, which doesn't work.
So the performance is to work with prototypes to work a lot, but let's see how different teams act.
The average for most of them is about 50 centimeters, B W L students, half of them, lawyers do something more, but not much, kindergarten kids are better than adults.
Who is the most successful?
Architects and engineers, fortunately.
One meter is the alternate thing I've seen.
And why? Because they understand triangles and self - reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures.
CEOs are above average, but here's interesting.
Put out an executive administrator on the team, they become significantly better.
It's incredible. You see, "This team will win ."
You can predict that. Why is that?
Because they have special skills of the process of self - assembly.
They conduct the process, they understand it.
And that team that permits and control over labor is significantly improving the performance of the team.
Special skills and process skills and their combination of success.
If you have 10 teams who are typical of business, you get about six who are stable structures.
I was trying something interesting.
I thought we're going to take the poker and the same.
So I offered a $100 prize to software for the winner.
What do you think about these design students?
What was the result?
This happened. Not a team had a stable structure.
If someone had built a two - inch construction, he would have worn the price back home.
So isn't it interesting that high arms race have a strong effect?
We repeated this exercise with the same students.
What do you think happened?
Now you've got the advantage of the prototype.
This is how the same, bad team became one under the best.
They produced the highest construction in the least time.
So there are deep - reaching lessons for us, about nature's performance and success.
And you might ask, why would someone actually invest a sabbatical?
The reason is that I'm helping digital tools and processes to help teams create cars, video games and visualization.
And what the marshmallow are doing is trying to identify them with hidden assumptions.
Because frankly, every project has its own marshmallow.
The challenge offers a shared experience, a common language, or why maintaining the right prototype.
And this is the value of this experience, this simple exercise.
And those of you who're interested in can visit mar itime Organization.
It's a blog where you see how to build the marshmallow.
There's one step - by - step instructions.
They find crazy examples from all over the world, like people tweak the system and refine it.
There are also world records.
And the bas al lesson, I think, is actually a construction of sports.
It demands that all of us focus on the task, and that we use our thinking optimal, how our emotions and our Tunis, in the challenge that lies ahead of us.
And sometimes a small prototype of this experience is everything it needs to bring us from a "Ooh" to a ta "moment.
And that can make a big difference.
Thank you.
Let's pretend we had a machine.
A big machine, a cool machine, TED - like machine, and this is a time machine.
And everybody in this room has to go in.
And you can go to the past, you can go to the future; you can't stay in here and now.
And I wonder what you would choose because I asked my friends at the last time, and they wanted to go all the time.
I don't know. They wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or Twitter or "America ."
I don't know.
I'm convinced you' re sort of drawn to the nostalgia, a wish.
And I understand that.
I'm not part of this group, I have to say.
I don't want to be in the past, and that' s not because I'm a adventure.
It's because opportunities are not going back on this planet, they go forward.
So I want to go into this machine, and I want to go into the future.
This is the greatest time that we ever had on this planet, no matter what scale you scale: health, wealth, mobility, opportunities, declining disease.
There was never been a time like this.
My great grandparents all died when they were 60.
My grandparents urged this number on 70.
My parents are 80 on the heel.
So there should be better a nine on my death row.
But it's not even about people like us, because this is a bigger thing than that.
A child born today in New Delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world.
Think about it. This is an incredible fact.
And why is that?
smallpox. The smallpox vaccination has killed billions of people on this planet.
They've shaped the demographics of the Earth in a way that no war has ever done.
They're gone. They' ve gone.
We have hooked them up. puff.
In the rich world, diseases exist that millions of us still have threatened by one generation, barely.
Di artery, skirts, skirts, kids...
Anyone know what this is?
vaccines, modern medicine, our ability to feed billions of people that are successes of science.
And from my perspective, the scientific method of trying to try and try and figure out if it doesn't work, it' s one of the greatest achievements of humanity.
So that's the good news.
Unfortunately, this is all good news, because there's a few other problems, and they' ve been mentioned.
And one of them is that despite all of our achievements, a billion people in this world are hungry every day.
This number goes up, and it goes up very fast, and it's embarrassing.
And it's not just that we' ve used our imagination to ravaged this world.
drinking water, ancient country rainforests, oil, gas: They disappear, and soon, if we don't go out of this mess, we disappear.
So the question is, can we do that?
I think it's clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without the country that they live in, rape.
I think we can power this world with energy that they're not destroying at the same time.
I really believe that, and no, that's not a wish.
But this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keep me awake at night, and we've never needed scientific progress yet.
And we've never been able to put it up properly, as we can today.
We're at the threshold and amazing events in many areas, and yet I really think we' d have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the Enlightenment, to find a time where we fought progress, where we've been fighting over these things more profound than now.
People wrap themselves in their faith, and that's so tight that you can' t free them.
Not even the truth will make it free.
And listen, everybody has a right to his opinion, even a right to his opinion.
But you know where you don't have a right?
They don't have a right to their own facts, they don' t.
And I took a while to find out this.
About a decade ago, I wrote an article about vaccines for "The New Yorker ," a little article.
And I was amazed to bump up against resistance, to what's the most effective practice in health care in human history.
I didn't know what to do, so I just did whatever I do, I wrote an article and went on.
And soon after that, I wrote an article about engineered food.
The same thing, just bigger.
People were playing crazy.
So I also wrote an article about it, and I couldn't understand why people thought this would be "Frankenstein food ," why they believed that molecules were throwing a certain way around a certain way around the field of nature.
But you know, I do what I do.
I mean, I am a journalist.
We type, we make rich, we eat, that's okay.
But this article was worried about me, and I couldn't find out why, and eventually I found it.
And that's because these fan atic fanatics who were crazy at all.
These were careful people, educated people, decent people.
They were just like the people in this room.
And it disturbed me so messy.
But then I thought, you know what, let's be honest.
We're at a point where we don' t have the same relationship to progress as early.
We're talking about seed y.
We're talking ironic about this, with small quotes marks, "progress ."
Okay, so there's reasons why, and I think we know what reasons are.
We have lost faith in institutions, in authority, and sometimes in science, there's no reason why it shouldn' t be that.
You can just call a few names, and people will understand.
Chernobyl, B unk er, the Challenger, V x x, weapons of mass destruction, the U. S. presidential election.
I mean, you can choose your list.
There are questions and problems with the people we believed they would always be right.
Ask questions, ask for evidence, ask evidence.
Take nothing for granted.
But now, if you get the evidence, you have to adopt this evidence, and we're not good at it.
And I can say that out of the reason that we're living in an epidemic of fear like I' ve never seen it before, and hopefully I'll never see again.
About 12 years ago, a story was published, a terrible story that was the autism epidemic associated with the measles, M ump, and the skirts vaccine.
Very frightening.
And lots of studies have been done to see if this was true.
And lots of studies should be done, and this is a serious business.
The data came in.
The data came in from the United States, from England, from Sweden, from Canada, and they were all equal, no correlation, no connection, no connection, no connection.
It doesn't make a difference. It doesn' t make a difference, because we believe in anecdotes, we believe what we see what makes us feel real.
We don't think about a bundle of documents from a government that gives us data, and I understand that, I think we all do.
But guess what?
And the result was catastrophic.
catastrophic because of this fact: the United States is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccination rate falls down.
This is massive, and we should be ashamed.
It's horrible.
What happened is that we could do this.
Well, I understand that. I do.
Because here's someone measles?
Did one of the single people ever see measles?
Pass ed not very often.
Pass ed in this country at all, but 160, 000 times in the world last year.
These are many deaths by measles, 20 per hour.
But because that's not what happened here, we can suppress it in, and people like Jenny can walk around and write messages from anxiety and illiteracy and Larry King' s Live.
And they can do that because they don't link and correlation.
They don't understand that these things seem to be the same, but almost never the same thing.
And that's something we need to learn, and it' s very fast.
This guy was a hero, Jonas Sal k.
He freed us from one of the worst scourge of humanity.
Don't fear, no qu ut, kids polio, disappeared.
The guy in the middle isn't so much.
It's called Paul Off it.
He just developed a couple of other people a red virus.
It can save the lives of 400, 500, 000 children a year in developing countries.
Pretty good, right?
Well, that's good, except that Paul runs around and talks about vaccines, and they say how valuable they are, and that people should just stop moan.
And that's what he says.
So Paul is a terrorist.
If Paul speaks in a public check, he can't tell the armed guards.
He gets calls home because people like to tell him they know where his children go to school.
And why? Because Paul has made a vaccine.
I don't need to say that, but vaccines are essential.
If you take them further, the diseases return, horrible diseases, and this is happening.
We now have measles.
And that gets worse, and pretty soon children will die again, because this is just a question of numbers.
And they're not only going to die of measles.
What about polio? Let's take that. Why not?
A class on me wrote a couple of weeks ago, and she said I'm a little too flat.
Nobody ever said that before.
She wouldn't vaccinate her child against polio. No way.
Fine.
Why? Because we have no children polio. And you know what?
We didn't have a polio polio yesterday.
Today, I don't know, maybe one morning somebody in Lagos at a plane, and just fly to Los Angeles, at the moment, he' s about Ohio.
And he lands on a few hours, and he claimed a car, and he comes to Long Beach, and he's going to visit one of these amazing TED night tonight.
And he doesn't know that he' s infected with a paralyzing disease, and we don't know that too, because that' s how the world works.
This is the planet that we live on, and don't pretend it' s not.
We love to wrap ourselves up in lies. We love that.
Did you take all your vitamins today?
echo in ace a, a little pair of ant iox id ants that help you.
I know you've done that because half of Americans do it every day.
They take the stuff, and they take alternative cures, and it doesn't make a difference how often we find out they' re useless.
The data kept showing that constant.
They make your urine, and they almost never do it.
That's okay, you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine.
I agree with you completely.
Dun cl eros is, dark.
Why do we do that? Why do we do that?
Well, I think I understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry.
We hate a strong government. We don't have faith in the system.
And that's not what we should do. Our healthcare system sucks.
It's cruel to millions of people.
It's absolutely amazing cold and emotional even to us who can afford it.
So we're running away, and where are we going?
We run into the arms of placebo industry.
That's great. I love the placebo industry.
But you know, this is really serious business, because this stuff is crap, and we give billions of dollars to it.
And I have all kinds of little artifacts here.
K one of them -- G ing ko, echo, echo in aceous, cheating, because I don't even know what that is, but we give billions of dollars to it, it' s fraud.
And you know what? When I say that, people scream at me and say, "What's taking care? Let' s do what they want.
And they feel good ."
And you know what? You've wrong.
Because it doesn't matter whether it' s the Minister of Health who says, "Hmm, I'm not going to accept the evidence of my experts at Mam mo tor haw ks who wants to treat his patients with coffee boxes.
And if you go to that path, where belief and magic evidence and science is replacing it with a place where you don't want to be.
You get to T ow o M io ki in South Africa.
He took 400, 000 of his people around because he insisted that red clubs, crunch y and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know that they can slow down the course of AIDS.
Hundreds of thousands of unfinished deaths in a country that's worse than anyone else' s disease.
Don't tell me that these things don' t have consequences.
They have them. They always have them.
Well, the brain less epidemic in which we're right now is this absurd battle between the interlocking food and the bio - elite.
This is a i imaginative debate. It has to stop.
It's a debate about words, about metaphors.
This is ideology, not science.
Everything we eat is rampant, every branch of Peter silver ie, every rose thor ns, every rose thor ns of people.
You know, there was no mon mon ds in paradise.
There was no C ant ou pe, there were no Christmas trees.
We've done it in the last 11, 000 years.
And some of them didn't work and some things.
We got rid of what didn't work.
Now we can make it more deeply, and of course there are risks, but we can do something like vitamin A in rice, and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives.
You don't want to do that?
I have to say that I don't understand.
We lean back to technical food.
Why do we do that?
Well, what I hear is: Too many chemicals, pesticides, hormones, monoc ultures, we don't want to have a huge fields with one thing that' s wrong.
We don't want corporations to patent life.
We don't want corporations to own seeds.
And you know what my answer is to all this?
Yes, you're right. Take this.
It's true, we have a huge food problem, but that' s not science.
This has nothing to do with science.
It's right, morality, patent ny.
You know that science is not a company.
She's not a country.
It's not even an idea; it' s a process.
It's a process, and sometimes it doesn' t work and sometimes it doesn't work, but the idea that we shouldn' t allow science to do their work because we fear is a real dead end, and it keeps millions of people from flourishing.
You know, in the next 50 years, we're going to have 70 percent more food growing than at the moment. 70 percent.
This investment in Africa in the last 30 years.
Ad diction ar. Des ms.
They need it, and we don't give it to them.
And why? Gen technology changed food.
We don't want to encourage people to eat this red stuff like cassava.
You're io something that eats half a billion people.
It's like a potato.
It's just a bundle of calories.
It doesn't have nutrients, it has no protein, and scientists are building all this in it.
And then people could eat that and wouldn't be blind.
You wouldn't starve, and you know what?
That would be nice. It wouldn't be like Che z Pan, but it would be nice.
And all I can say about that is, why do we fight this?
I mean, let's ask ourselves, why do we fight this?
Because we don't want to push a gene around?
It's not about pushing genes around, it' s not about chemicals.
It's not about our ridiculous passion for hormones, our maintaining greater food, better food, more unique food.
It's not about grooves in, it' s about getting people alive, and it's time to understand what that means.
Because you know what?
If we don't do that, if we keep doing so far, we' re guilty about something that we think I don't want to be guilty, high - tech colonialism.
There's no other description for what' s happening here.
It's selfish, it' s ugly, it's not worthy, and we really need to stop that.
So after this incredibly funny conversation, you might want to say, "You still want to go into this ridiculous machine time and go to the future ?"
Anyway, so that's what I want.
At the moment, it's in the present, but we have an incredible opportunity.
We can put this time machine on everything we want.
We can move it wherever we want to move it, and we will move it where we want.
We need to lead these conversations, and we need to think, but if we go up into the machine time, we will be happy to have that done.
I know that we can do it, and as far as it affects me, is something that needs the world.
Thank you.
When Steve Lopez, columns, the Los Angeles Times, one day went through the streets of Los Angeles, he heard a wonderful music.
She came from a man, an African - American, sympathetic, homeless, homeless who played on a violin, who only had two strings.
Many of you will know the story, because from Stefan Sag me articles on this later, a book that was gripped by Robert Dow ney's Stone Age, named Steve Lopez and Jamie as Nathaniel Ay ers, the moder ator who studied at the Juilliard School, studied and a promising career in the Juilliard School, was finished soon by his paranoid schizophrenia.
Nathaniel left Juilliard, a nerves came together and 30 years later, he lived as a homeless shelter on the streets of Los Angeles.
I would encourage all of you to read the book or look at the film so that you don't just understand the wonderful connection between these two men, but also how the music helped make this connection, and how ultimately it helped the instrument when this word was helped to get Nathaniel from the street.
And I met Mr. Ay er in 2008, two years ago, in the Walt Disney Con workshop.
He just heard a demo of Beethoven's first and V - driven symphony, came behind the stage to imagine.
He spoke in a very much more hot and social tone about Y ikes and Hillary Clinton and about how the Dodgers would never get into the baseball World Series, and all of this because of the violin, the first violin passage in the last sentence of Beethoven Viol.
And we came to talk about music, and a few days later, I got an email saying that Nathaniel was interested in me.
I've got to mention that Nathaniel has charged a medical treatment, because he was already treated with Tas ers and his battal ions and hand axes, a trauma that has been tracking his entire life.
And as a result, he's particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases, and sometimes they' re so bad that they're attracted to him, and he disappears into the streets of Skid Row, always migrate to this horror and torture qu ivering of his own mind.
And in exactly this kind of excitement, Nathaniel was when we started with our first classes in the Walt Disney Hall, and he had lost this insane torch in his eyes and lost.
He talked about invisible demons and smoke and how to poison him in sleep.
I was scared, not my fear, but I was scared that I could lose him in one of his states, and that I could destroy him to the violin, if I started to break down clay and Ar pe ne mes and other exciting forms of the di k uc ci k ire.
So I just started playing.
I played the first sentence from Beethoven Viol in concert.
And while I was playing, I noticed that in Nathaniel's eyes, a total change went ahead.
It was like he stood under the impact of an invisible medicine, a chemical response that was my catalyst.
Nathaniel's man transformed into understanding a calm and grace.
And like a miracle, he took his violin and started playing a few snippets of violin players and asked me to play them at the end: Men j ian k ko vsky, Si ya them.
And then we started talking about music, starting from Bach's Beethoven, Bra vo, B ick ner and all the other Bs of beard ed by Bartok' s corn to it.
And I realized that he didn't just owned an encycloped ic knowledge about music, but with her, a close personal relationship.
He talked about her with a passion and understanding that I'm only familiar with my colleague at Los Angeles.
By playing music and talking about music, it was made out of this paranoid, confused man who had just moved through the streets of Los Angeles, an adorable, excellent, excellent, champion ed at Juilliard.
Music is medicine. Music changes us.
For Nathaniel, music means psychological health.
Because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions of his imagination and creativity into something fundamental.
And so when he heads off his agonizing arms.
I understood that this is the nature of art.
And this is the reason why we do music: so that we can do something that's inside us, deep inside, our emotions, through our artistic lens, through our creativity.
And the reality of expression is that all of us and moves together, inspires us.
What Nathaniel went on, he brought him back to a community of friends.
He brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him back to a family of musicians who understood his talent and looked heed.
And I'm always going to talk to Alec' s music, whether in the Walt Disney Hall or in Sk ond Row, because he reminds me why I became a musician.
Thank you.
Bruno Giussani: Thank you.
Robert Gu Gupta.
Robert Gu ert z: I want to play something that I've stolen ly known to the cell ist.
I hope you forgive me.
I'm Jane Mc Gon ig al. I design video games.
I've been developing online games for 10 years, and my goal for the next decade is to make it easy as easy to save the world in reality, how to save online games.
I have a plan for it, and I want to convince more people, including all, spend more time playing with play bigger and great games.
Right now, we spend three billion hours a week with online games.
Some of you might think, "This is a whole lot of time for games ."
Maybe something too much time when you consider how many problems we desperately need in the real world.
But in fact, my research at the Institute for the future is exactly the opposite.
Three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world.
In fact, I believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet, we need to dramatically increase the time.
I calculated that the time it took time for 21 billion hours a week.
Now, that seems counterintuitive, so I repeat it: If we want to solve problems like hunger, climate change, global conflicts and obesity, global conflicts and obesity, I think we need to try and play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week.
No, I really think it's serious.
Why? This picture is pretty accurate.
And why I think games are so vital for survival of human species in the future.
This is a portrait of photographer Mr. Teszler.
He wanted to capture the emotions on play, so he built a camera on the players.
This is one of the classic expressions of play.
If you're not a player, maybe some of the nuances in this picture.
You'll probably see this sense of urgency, a bit of fear, but also very antithesis, which is very difficult for me to solve a really difficult problem.
And if you're also playing, you' ll see some nuances here, and the mouth is a sign of optimism.
This is a player who's on the verge of a epic enter.
Oh, you know that. OK. prime.
So we have some players here.
An epic victory is a result that's so extremely positive that you didn' t even know it was possible at all.
It was almost beyond the imagination, and if you reach it, you're shocked.
This is a epic triumph.
This player is just a epic triumph.
And this is what we need to see on millions of faces problems around the world when we take the hurdles of the next century, and the face of those who confront against all odds on the verge of a epic enter.
Well, unfortunately, we see this face in real life when we face difficult problems.
I call it "In life, I'm bad" face ."
And it's actually my face, you see? Yes.
That's me how I do that "In life I' m bad" face ."
This is a graffiti in my former home in Berkeley, California, where I studied in my Ph. D.
This is a problem that many players have.
We think that in reality, we're not as good as play.
And I don't mean just less successful, even though it' s heard about it.
We can do more in game worlds.
I mean, I'm okay with motivation to do something meaningful, inspired to work together.
If we're in a game world, I believe that many of us turn into our best version at any time, and immediately caring, are adam antly willing to solve the problem as long as it takes back to the failure again.
And in reality, if we fail, if we encounter obstacles, we often feel different.
We feel overwhelmed. We feel defeated, we feel threatened, maybe depressed, frustrated or cynical.
We never have these feelings when we play games, in games, they simply don't exist.
And that's what I wanted to study as a graduate student.
Why is it impossible in games to think that you could not just achieve everything?
How can we transmit these feelings from play into reality?
So I looked at games like World of Warcraft, which is an ideal environment for collaborative problem solving.
And I found some things that were epic enter the online worlds so possible.
So first, if you go into one of these online games, especially in World of Warcraft, there's a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission, which is immediately.
But not just any mission, but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in play, right?
So do that.
They never get a job you can't solve.
But always on the edge of your skill, so you have to work hard.
But there's no unemployment in World of Warcraft, and you' re not sitting around, and there's always a very important thing to do.
And there are tons of staff.
Wherever you go, hundreds of thousands of people working with you to complete your epic mission.
We don't just have that feeling in real life, that feeling that if you snap a finger pile of staff.
And then there's this epic story, this inspirational story, why we' re there and what we do, and then we get this whole positive feedback.
You probably heard about "level high and" + 1 strength ," or "+ 1 intelligence ."
This constant feedback is not in real life.
When I leave this stage, I don't have to say + 1 crazy idea, + 20 crazy idea.
I don't get that feedback in real life.
So, the problem of Co operative worlds like World of Warcraft is that it's so satisfying at all at the edge of a epic enter that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds.
They're better than reality.
Until today, all of the World of Warcraft players have spent five, 93 million years trying to solve virtual problems.
That's not necessarily something bad.
It sounds nasty.
But to see it in context: 5. 93 million years ago, our first primate started walking upright.
So the first upright primate.
OK, so if we talk about how much time we spend time playing games, that makes sense when you hold time in terms of scale of human development, which is extraordinary.
But also appropriate, because it turns out that by using all of the time to play, actually change what we're capable of doing as humans.
We develop a collaborative thinking, warm creature.
That's the truth. I believe that.
So let's look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University: The average young man from today in a country with strong game culture, 10, 000 hours with online play to 21 years.
So 10, 000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons.
First of all, for children in America, 10.
parallel tracking path that young people learn as well as what it means to be a good player, how everything else they learn in school.
And maybe some of you have read the new book from Malcolm Glad well, "Over passes ," so you know the theory of success, the theory of success, the theory of success of 10, 000 hours.
It's based on the great research of cognitive science, that if we spend 10, 000 hours with tedious learning from any subject to the 21st of life, we will cover it.
We're going to be so good at doing whatever the most significant human world.
So what we've got here is a full generation of young people who are masters.
So the big question is, "What are the key players masters ?"
Because if we could figure this out, we'd never have been able to have a human potential.
So many people have now in the world that spend at least an hour a day with online play.
These are our master players, 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something.
And over the next decade, we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good in whatever.
If you haven't heard it yet.
The game industry is designed to save energy and work on mobile phone nets instead of broadband Internet so player can play around the world, especially in India, China, Brazil.
You expect another billion players in the next decade.
So we have 1. 5 billion players.
So I started thinking about what it's like to cover our games.
Here's the four things I found: urgency of optimism.
OK, imagine how extreme self - motivating.
Part of urgency -- optimism is the desire to do something immediately, to a barrier together with faith that we have an innovative hope to succeed.
player always believe that an epic triumph is possible, and that it's worth trying to try and do it.
player don't sit around.
gamers are masters at social nets.
There's a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more people after playing with them even when they defeated us.
The reason for this is that it requires a lot of trust to play with someone.
We trust that someone spend time with us spend time trying to keep the rules that we have the same goal and to play with them.
So this allows us to play together and grow bonds, trust and cooperate.
As a result, we build stronger social relationships.
Happiness. Awesome.
You know, there's one reason why the average word of Warcraft player is playing 22 hours a week, as part - time job.
The reason is that when we play, we're actually happier to work hard than when we relax or do nothing.
We know that we work as a human being, if we do hard, meaningful work.
And player are always ready to work hard when they get the right job.
And finally, epic meaning.
player love to become part of awe of the planetary potential.
Here's a background information to bring back to the right light, and you' ve probably all heard Wikipedia, the largest Wiki of the world.
The second largest Wiki world, with almost 80, 000 entries is the World of Warcraft.
Five million people use it every month.
They've assembled more information about World of Warcraft on the Internet than any other subject in any other universe.
They create a epic story.
They create a epic source of knowledge about the World of Warcraft.
OK, so these are four superpowers leading to a single result, players are super - powerful, hopeful individuals.
It's people who believe that they can change as individuals.
And the only problem is that they believe they can change the virtual worlds, but not real.
That's the problem I try to solve.
Edward Castro, is a popular scientist.
His work is ingenious. He studied why.
People spend so much time spending energy and spending money on online worlds.
And he says, "We're not going to see witnesses on less than mass - massive worlds online ."
And this is an economist.
And he says -- Not as I -- I develop games, I'm somewhat over harsh.
So he says that this makes sense, because players can achieve more than in real life.
They can connect stronger social bonds than real life, and they get more feedback and reward in games than in real life.
So he says it's completely obvious that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world.
I first agree, that's logical.
But it's definitely not a baseline.
We need to start turning the real world into a game.
My inspiration comes from an event that goes back 2, 500 years.
There are these ancient cube rolling out of sheep's markets. You know?
And before these fantastic games, there were sheep's markets.
And these were sort of the first human - developed game machines, and if you're familiar with the works of ancient Greek historian Her lover, you might know this story, and the story about how games were invented.
According to Herschel's games, more concrete games, in the kingdom.
There was such a great famine that the king of Ly on a crazy idea.
The people were suffering.
It was an extreme situation. It took an extreme solution.
So they invented, according to Herschel, the cube and agreed on a national strategy, and on a day you would eat.
And they would be so much deep inside the cube that would be deep, because games are so fascinating and satisfy us, happy productivity productivity, that they would forget that there was nothing to eat.
And then the next day you would play, and the next day you would eat.
And according to Herschel survived that way for 18 years by eating and playing on a day.
Likewise, I think we're playing games today.
We use games to escape the suffering of the real world, and we use games to avoid all the way that doesn't work in the real world, everything that' s not satisfying in real life, and we bring ourselves out what we need.
But that doesn't have to be the end.
And that's exciting.
According to Her death, after 18 years, famine wasn't better.
They divided the kingdom into two halves.
They played a cube game, and the winner was allowed to break a epic adventure.
They left un forgiving homes, and they went to search for a new home, and they just let so many people go back as food for survival and looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive.
Sounds crazy, right?
But most recent DNA evidence shows that the aspen ro ks who later trained the Roman Empire, has the same DNA as the old Stone Age.
So scientists recently came to the notion that Herschel's crazy story is actually true.
And geologists found evidence of a global cooling cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine might explain.
So this crazy story might agree.
Maybe they've actually saved their people through play by playing games for 18 years, and then they had this blended, and so much about collaborating with cooperation that by having saved the entire civilization.
So we can do that too.
We've been playing for Warcraft.
This was the first strategy in real time.
World of Warcraft series, and that was 16 years ago.
They played dice for 18 years, we've been playing Warcraft.
I'm saying we' re ready for our own epic play.
So they sent half their civilization to search for a new world, so I'm going to take my 21 billion hours a week.
We should be able to match that half of us spend an hour a day with play, until we solved the problems of real world.
I know you're going to ask, "How do we solve real world problems?
And that's what I' ve done in play ?"
We have this banner in our office in Palo Alto, it feels like we should understand the future.
We don't want to try and tell the future before.
What we want to do is create the future.
We want to think about the best possible outcome, and then humans will empower this idea to make reality.
We put ourselves in epic enter and give people the opportunity to achieve them.
I'm going to show you just three games that I designed to try and get people epic enter into their own future.
This is "world without oil ."
The game is from 2007.
It's a online game that you have to overcome a fossil shortage.
The oil shortage is invented, but we have enough online content to make it realistic and you actually live your real life without oil.
How transportation is closed, whether schools are closed, whether there are rioting, and you have to figure out how to design your real life if it was true, and we ask you to employ them blogging videos or photography.
We tested this game with 1, 700 players in 2007, and we've been carrying it since the last three years.
And I can tell you, it was a changing experience.
Nobody wants to change his life because it's good for the environment, or because we should.
But if you're in a epic adventure and you' re told, "We're going to go out of oil ."
This is a fascinating adventure that you go on.
Find out how you would survive, and most of our players have learned how to do habits.
So for the next global saving, we've put a bigger game, higher goal than just oil scarcity.
We've developed the game called Super construction Institute for the future.
And the point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet.
This supercomputer is called global ization system, of course.
The call for gamers, we've designed almost like a "Jerry B Press ."
You know Jerry B printed films where there's the Dream team, and they have the astronauts, the ex - ts band, and only together they can save the world.
But in our game, instead of just five people, we say, every one is in the Dream team, and it's our job to create the future for energy, food, health, security and the future of social justice.
8, 000 players played the game for 8 weeks.
They found 500 creative solutions that you can read when you Google "Super construction ."
And the last game is that we bring out on the third March, and it's a game in collaboration with the World Bank.
If you finish the game, you get from the World Bank award for Social Security, 2010.
We work with universities in completely sub - Saharan Africa, and invite them to learn social engineering.
We have a comic book on this, and we have a level high - level view of knowledge creation, sustainability, vision and ingenuity.
I'd like to invite all of you to share this game with young people everywhere in the world, especially in development areas that benefit from creating their own social enterprises to save the world.
I'm going to finish.
I want to ask you something.
What do you think happens next?
We have all these fantastic players, we have games that show us what we can do, but we haven't saved the real world.
Well, I hope you agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life, and that games have a big meaning for change.
We have all these super forces, happy productivity, the ability to connect close social nets, urgency, and the desire to trigger - loving meaning.
I really hope that we play together meaningful games to survive on this planet.
And I hope you're going to design and play with me.
And when I look forward to the next decade, I'm sure to make sure that we can create every future imaginable, and we can play all sorts of games, and so I say, let' s start the world - changing games.
Thank you.
For some time, I've been interested in the placebo effect, it may seem strange that a magician' s magician's been interested in it because you look at it as "a deception that will become something real, if someone only believes in it ."
In other words, sugar pills have shown a measurable effect, placebo effect, because it's just because the person thinks what' s happening with her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of a kind of — in pain management, for example, if the patient only believed enough, there's a measurable effect on the body that you call the placebo effect.
A deception becomes something real, because someone sees it that way.
So let's also understand each other, I want to show you a basic, very simple magic trick.
And I'm going to show you how it works, and this is a trick that has at least since the 1950s book stands for children.
I even learned him from the C ran Sc out Mag nes ian Trail in the 1970s.
I'm going to perform him for you and then explain him.
And then I'll explain why I explain him.
So, look what happens.
The knife you can study; my hand you can study.
I'm just going to hold the knife in my hand.
I put my sleeve back.
And to make sure nothing disappear in my sleeve or out of him, I'm just going to push my wrist right here.
And in this way, you can see that no time moving anything, and as long as I push here, nothing can move into my sleeve or come out.
And the goal here is quite simple.
I'm going to open my hand, hopefully if everything goes well, the knife is held by my bare physical body.
It's actually stuck with his place that I can' t shake it without falling down.
Nothing travels in my sleeve or comes out, no trick les.
Ta - da!
Well, that's a trick that I often associate with little kids who are interested in magic, because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely at it, even though you' re doing a very simple thing.
I think many of you in this room probably know this trick.
And it works like this.
I hold the knife in my hand.
I say I'm going to close my wrist, to make sure nothing in my sleeve or come out, and that' s a lie.
The reason why I hold my wrist is because it's the real secret of the illusion.
Because at the moment, where I turn my hand away from you, so you see it moving from the back, this finger is moving from here, my index finger, just from where he was, in a position where he was so extended.
Great trick?
There's somebody who had no childhood.
So it's here. Exactly.
And when I turn around, the finger changes its position.
And now you could talk about why this is a deception, why you don't hear it at the bottom are just three fingers: because the mind and the way it processes and the way it processes information is not one, one, two, three, but it looks as a group.
But it's not really all about this, and then I open my hand.
Of course, it's held there, but it' s not magnetism by the magnetism's body, but by a trick, by my finger finger finger finger, which is now there.
And if I close my hand, the same thing happens by turning me back, is hidden through this movement, the fingers will move back again.
I take that hand away, and here's the knife.
This trick is to show your friends and neighbors.
Now, what does this have to do with placebo effect?
A year ago or something, I read a study that really blew my mind.
I'm not a doctor or scientist, and that' s why this was an amazing thing for me.
And what it turns out is that if you offer a placebo in a white pill, in the form of an aspirin tablet, that's just a round, white pill that has measurable effect.
But if you give the shape where you put the placebo, for example, in a smaller pill, and you color in a smaller pill, and it turns out that it's actually measurable.
And that, even though there's no pharmaceutical -- it' s just sugar pills.
But a white pill is not as good as a blue pill.
What? That made me really freak out.
But it turns out that it's not all.
If you take capsules they're even more effective than pills each form.
A colored capsule that's on one end of yellow and on the other red is better than a white capsule.
Also, the retention plays a role.
A pill twice a day, not as good as three pills -- I can't remember the exact statistics.
But the key thing is...
... also, the di os play a role.
And the shape plays a role.
And if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect, you have to grab the needle.
Right? A syringe with a ineffective substance, a few milligrams per dec iliter that you inject a patient.
It creates a very strong picture in your head, and that's a lot stronger than a white pill.
This chart is really -- I'm going to show you another time when we have a project.
So the fact is that the white pill doesn't seem as good as the blue pill that doesn' t seem as good as a capsule that doesn't seem as good as the needle.
And nothing of that has some really real pharmaceutical property, and it's only our faith in making stronger impact.
I wanted to know if I could use this idea for a magic trick.
I take something that's obviously a deception, and let' s make it look real.
Well, we know from this study that you have to grab the needle when it's supposed to go.
This is an 18 - inch hat needle. She's very, very tight ar.
This is really my flesh. It's not Dam traditional farming.
This is my skin. This is not a special effect of Hollywood.
I'm now going to sting this needle into my skin and push through it until it comes back to the other side.
If you're bad, if you' re slightly bombed -- I've shown this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room, and some people I didn' t know about, and this is a woman almost exclusively - powerful woman.
So I'm suggesting that if you' re going to be tough, look away for the next 30 seconds, or, you know, what I'm going to do is make the first sensitive part here.
You can see it the same, but you can also see it away if you want to.
So it's like this, right here where my flesh starts, at the lower part of my arm, I' m just going to make a small puncture boat.
Sorry. Are you crazy?
And now just a little bit through my skin and out on the other side like that.
Now we're actually in the same situation that we' ve had on the knife trick.
Rough ly.
But now you can't count my fingers, right?
So I'm going to show you. This is one, two, three, four, five.
Well, yeah.
I know what people think when they see that.
They say, "Okay, that's probably not so stupid, and it' s going to hide the skin itself just for a few minutes ."
Now, I'm going to show you.
What does this look like? Pretty good.
Yes, I know. And people back in the back say, "Okay. I haven't seen this right ."
The people in the fringes come in.
Let me show you this close to you.
This is really my skin. This is not a special effect of Hollywood.
This is my flesh, and I can spin it around.
Sorry. If you're sick, look away, don' t look.
The people back in the back or the ones that later see on video will say, "Well, that looks pretty impressive, but if it was real, it would be -- you see, here's a hole and there if it would be real, it would bleed out there, it would bleed out.
Okay, let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you.
Yes, here it is.
And normally, I would take the needle out.
I would give my arm clean and show you that there are no wounds.
But I think in this framework here and with intention to make a fool a really real, I'm just going to leave the needle in there and go from the stage.
We're going to meet a few times in the next few days.
I hope you're excited.
So I've known many fish in my life.
I only loved two.
This first one was more like an passionate affair.
It was a beautiful fish, delicious, good texture, a bestseller, a bestseller.
What a fish.
More importantly, he was cultured in aquaculture, according to the highest standards of sustainability.
So you could feel comfortable selling it.
I had this beauty with a relationship with several months.
One day, the head of the company called and asked if I could give you an event about sustainability of the farm.
"Of course ," I said.
Here's a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs, and how do we keep fish on our menu?
In the last 50 years, we've fished the oceans like we' ve beaten forests.
It's hard to rate destruction.
Ninety percent of the big fish that we love, the tuna, the tuna but lers, the sword fish, sword fish, they have collapsed.
There's almost nothing left.
So I think it's a nasty farming culture, fish farming, a part of our future.
Many arguments against fish farming pollute the environment, most of them anyway, and they're inefficient, we take tuna. One big disadvantage.
He's got a food review from 15 to one.
That means 15 pounds of wild fish require so you get a pound of farming tuna.
Not very sustainable.
Don't worry very well.
So here was finally a company trying to do it right.
I wanted to support them.
Day before the event, I called the boss of public work for the company.
Let's call him Don.
"Don ," I said," just to have the facts right, you're famous for getting so far out in the ocean that you' re not polluted the environment ."
"That's true ," he said," We' re so far out that the waste of our fish is being distributed ."
And then he added, "We're basically a whole world.
And these feed ings from 2. 5 to 1 ," he said.
"The best in the industry ."
2. 5 to one, great.
"2. 5 to one thing? What feeds her ?"
"Sustainable proteins ," he said.
"Great ," I said.
And that night, I lay in bed, and I thought, what the hell is a sustainable protein?
So I called the next day, just before the event, Don't.
I said, "Don, what are sustainable proteins ?"
He said he didn't know.
Now, on the phone, I emailed a few people in the company, and nobody could give me a decent answer, until finally, with the senior biologists on phone calls.
Let's call him Don.
"Don ," I said," What are sustainable proteins ?"
Well, he mentioned some algae and some fish pool, and then he said, chicken pellets.
I said, "chicken pellets ?"
He said, "Yes, feathers, skin litter, dried and food ."
I said, "How much percentage of your food is chicken ?"
Maybe two percent.
"Well, that's about 30 percent ," he said.
I said, "Don, what's sustainable to feed chicken fish ?"
There was a long pause on the line, and he said, "There's just too chicken on the planet ."
I loved myself from this fish.
No, not because I'm a more just genius and good person.
I'm even.
No, I actually love a little bit of love with this fish, because I swear to God who sent fish to this conversation after chicken.
This second fish, which is a different kind of love story.
It's the romantic way, the way you' ve ever learned to know your fish is that you love the fish you love the more.
I first ate it in a restaurant in Southern Spain.
A journalist had been talking about this fish for a long time.
It's kind of teasing us.
He came to the table with a bright, almost glowing white color.
The chef had forged him.
Hold twice.
Amazing ly, he was still delicious.
Who can make a fish taste so tasty after he'd been able to make it?
I can't, but this guy can.
Let's call it Miguel.
And no, he doesn't cook the fish, and he' s not a chef, at least the way you and I understand it underneath.
He's a biologist at V ta a La Pal au.
This is a fish dividing in the south western Midwest.
It's close to the mouth of the river Gu adal iv ir.
Until the 1980s, the farm was a farm in the hands of Argentine an.
They raised meat in the world, which was basically wetlands.
They did that by irrig ating the country.
They built this complicated consequence of canals and they kept pushing water out of the country and out into the river.
Well, they couldn't make a difference that worked, not economically.
And ecologically a disaster.
It took about 90 percent of the birds to see what are a lot of birds.
And so 1982, a Spanish company went out with green forces.
What did they do?
They have the river of water vice versa.
They literally put the levers.
Instead of breaking the water out, they used the channels to pull the water back.
They bled the channels.
They created an 11, 000 hectares of fish -- Bar k, the sea shrimp, A al -- and then you have Miguel and his company completely vice versa.
Farm is incredible.
I mean, you've never seen anything like this.
They're staring out at the horizon that' s a million miles away, and all they're seeing is flooded by canals and these dense march.
I wasn't there long time with Miguel.
He's an incredible guy, three parts Charles Darwin and a part of "A crocodile ."
Okay? Because we fought, and we fought through the wetlands, and I'm swimming, Mat sh, Mat pe to my knees and Miguel is resting in a biology class.
Here he lifts a rare gluten.
Now, he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton.
And here, here he sees a pattern of alliance, which reminds him of the Tanzanian giraffe.
It turns out that Miguel has spent the largest part of his career in M á i National Park in Africa.
And I asked him how to become such a fish experts.
He said, "Fish? I don't know about fish.
I'm an expert on relationships ."
And then he goes and crashes down into more talk about rare birds and algae and strange water plants.
And don't understand me wrong, that was really fascinating, you know, the biotic community, like this.
It's great, but I fell in love.
And my head became weak over this vortex of delicious fish that I had on the brink.
So I interrupted. I said, "Miguel, how does your fish taste so good ?"
He showed up the algae.
"I know boy, the algae, the phytoplankton, the relationships, that's incredible.
But what are your fish eating?
How is the food review ?"
Well, he goes on to tell me that it's such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild.
The vegetable biomass, the phytoplankton, the zoop lank ton, which is what the fish feeds.
The system is so healthy, it's completely innovate.
There's no food.
The one farm belongs to a farm that doesn't feed her animals?
Later on day, I was driving around this property with Miguel and I asked him, I said, "For a place that looks like this ," unlike any farm I've ever been," How do you measure success ?"
At the moment, it was like a movie director would have required a stage.
And we head around the corner and we offered the incredible sight, thousands and thousands and thousands of pink flamingos, a literally pink carpet - down carpet.
"That's success ," he said.
"Look at her balls, pink.
They swing ."
Dif fic ult?
I said, "Miguel, don't you swing your fish ?"
"Yes ," he said.
"We lose 20 percent of our fish and fish to the birds.
Well last year, there were 600, 000 birds, more than 250 different species.
It's now the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in Europe.
I said, "Miguel, is a good animal that wasn't the last thing you want to snat ched on a fish ?"
He shook his head, no.
He said, "We build special, not intense.
This is an ecological network.
The Flo os eat the shrimp.
The shrimp eat the phytoplankton.
So the pink er on the belly, the better the system ."
Okay, let's rethink this: a farm that doesn' t feed her animals, and a farm that measures her success on health of her predators.
A fish br ung, but a bird reserved.
Oh, by the way, these fl ages shouldn't be there.
They're breeding in a city for 240 mile, where the ground gets made better for the nest maintenance.
Every morning, they fly 240 kilometers to farm.
And every night, they fly 240 kilometer.
They do that because they can follow the white line of the country's highway.
Seriously.
I had introduced myself to a kind of journey of penguins, so I looked at Miguel.
I said, "Miguel, fly 240 kilometers to the farm, and then fly 240 kilometers back at night?
Do they do that for kids ?"
He looked at me when I was just quoted a song from Whitney Houston.
He said, "No. They do this because food is better ."
I didn't mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious, and I don' t like fish skin.
It's this bite, it cooled down.
I almost never cook it.
And yet, when I tried it in this restaurant in Southern Spain, it didn't even leak it after fish.
She liked it cute, and if you were taking a bite from the ocean.
I mentioned this to Miguel and he nod ded.
He said, "The skin works like a sponge.
She's the last defense before something enters the body.
It's evolved over evolution in order to swallow imperfections ."
And then he added, "But our water has no imperfections ."
Okay. A farm that doesn't feed her fish, a farm that measures her success on her success.
And then I realized when he says that a farm that doesn't have any imperfections, under push enormous, because the water that' s flowing through these farm lands from the river to Gu adal R iv ir.
It's a river that causes all of the things that rivers nowadays tend to lead them with themselves, chemical pollutants, flow from pests, anti - pest availability.
And when it fought through the system, and it leaves that water clean when it came in.
The system is so healthy, it cleans the water.
So not just a farm that doesn't feed her animals, not just a farm that measures her success on the health of her predators, but a farm that' s literally a water treatment plant, and it's not just for those fish but also for you and me.
Because when the water's flowing, it' s crazy in the Atlantic.
A drop in the ocean, I know, but I take it, and you should do it, because this romance story, like romantic, is also illuminating.
You might say she's a recipe for the future of good food, whether we' re talking about bar or meat.
What we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture, from one that actually tastes good at food.
But for many people, this is a little radical.
We're not real ists, we' re genius.
We love weeks markets. We love small families, we talk about local food, we eat organic food.
And if you claim that these are the things that make good food assure you somewhere in the future, someone says, "Hey people, I love pink flamingos, but how are you going to feed the world?
How will you feed the world ?"
Can I be honest?
I don't like that question.
No, not because we're making enough calories to feed the world more than just feeding.
A billion people are starving today.
A billion -- this is more than ever before -- because of the shaved inequalities, not waste production.
Well, I don't like this question because it' s determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years.
Feed ing crops to plant pests, pest crop crop pest, chemicals in the soil, chemicals on the planet, chicken fish, and all the time, the agricultural industry simply asked, "If we feed more people cheaper, how awful does this happen ?"
That was the cause. It was the right - making, it was the business plan of American agriculture.
We should call them what it is, a commercial development, a commercial capital eating, fast ecological capital that enables this production.
This is not commercial, and it's not agriculture.
Our grain chamber is under threat today, not due to losing weight, but because of the resources.
It's not through the latest M udd ers and tractors and tractors, but by a fertile country, not by pumps but by fresh water, not by chainsaw s, but through forests, and not through fishing boats and fishing boats, but through fish.
They want to feed the world?
Let's start with the question: How are we going to feed ourselves?
Or better, how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself?
To do that, don't look at the agricultural industry model for the future.
It's really old, and it' s done.
capital, chemistry and machines are at the top, and it never made a really good food for food.
Let's look at the ecological model.
This is the one that reaches back to two billion years of work experience.
Look at Miguel, farmers like Miguel.
Companies that don't have worlds for themselves to restore businesses instead of trying to restore businesses that are more productive instead of just farming, farmers who aren' t just brilliant, but experts on relationships.
Because they are the ones that are also experts for taste.
And if I'm really honest, they' re a better chef than I'll ever be.
You know, that's right to me, because if the future is good food, it' s delicious.
Thank you.
I grew up with an outsider science fiction.
In my school days, I went to school with the bus, every day an hour.
And my nose always stuck in a book, a science fiction book that led my thoughts in other worlds and led me to narrative storytelling deeply satisfied.
And this curiosity also showed me that whenever I wasn't in school, walked through the forests of the forests, walked away and collected "samples and snakes and bug water, everything brought home to the microscope.
I was really excited about science, you know.
It was always about trying to understand the world and the boundaries of what's possible.
And my love to mirror science fiction seemed to mirror myself in my environment, because back in the late'60s, we flew to the moon and explore the deep sea.
Jacques Cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that animals and places and a world full of wonder that we never could have imagined before.
And that's probably pretty good at that science fiction.
And I was an artist.
I could draw.
And because there's no video games yet to be the contacted with computer gener als, the whole image of the media in the media, I had to create the images in my head.
We all had to read that back then, when we read a book, we took the description of the author and projected them onto the canvas in our heads.
My reaction was to draw and painting aliens, apart from alien worlds, robots, room traw ls and all that.
In math education, I was always caught by the teacher who I painted behind the textbook, painted around.
Creativity had somehow got out.
And what happened was something interesting, because what fascinated me with Jacques Cousteau's shows, the idea was a completely unknown world here on Earth itself.
Certainly, I'm never going to reach an alien world with a spaceship, which seemed pretty unlikely.
But here was a world I could actually enter, here on Earth, and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all that I had always imagined when I read these books.
So I decided when I was 15 to divers.
The only problem with this was that I lived in a small village in Canada, 1, 000 miles away from the next ocean.
But I didn't get frustrated.
I was annoying my father until finally he finally made a submersibles, New York, found out exactly on the other side of the border where we lived.
I made my dive into a pool of Y M CA ou lt in the winter in Buffalo.
But the ocean, a real ocean, I only got two years later on face when we moved to California.
Since then, in the 40 years now, I've spent about 3, 000 hours underwater licenses in submersibles.
And I've learned that the world' s deep ocean, even in the flat oceans, is so rich in captive lives, as we can really barely imagine.
The fantasy of nature doesn't know borders, unlike our own, sh oc ating human imagination.
Until today, I feel deepest awe for what I see on my diving dives.
And my love to the ocean holds up with the same intensity as ever.
And when I was looking for an adult job, it was making films.
And this seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to share stories with my need to unite images.
When I was a kid, I was constantly drawing comic books and so forth.
So movies were the way to assemble images and stories, and that fit together.
Of course, the stories that I looked out of my science fiction was "Terminator ,"" aliens ," and "Ab bey ."
In "Ab bey", I could associate my preference for the underwater world and diving with the movies.
So literally, my two passions.
Something interesting happened at "Ab bey" -- to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that's what we had to create sort of liquid water, we took back to computer - generated animation, C.
And what came out about this was the first computer - generated dog - generated character ever in a movie.
Now, the film didn't take money, and he just said he was playing a production cost, but I realized something fascinating: The audience around the world was like hypnotic, from the magic that came out.
According to Arthur Clarke's law, as well as tyran nical technology, and magic is not different from each other.
So they saw something magical.
And I found that incredibly exciting.
And I thought, "Wow, that needs to be involved in the movie art ."
So we went to "Terminator 2 ," my next film, even further.
And together with FI LM, we made this guy out of liquid metal, and the success of how this effect would arrive.
And it worked. Again, we've created something magical, and the impact in the audience was the same, but we' ve played a little bit more money.
From those two experiences, a whole new world has reached a whole new world of creativity for film.
So I set up a company with my good friend Stan Winston W, who was at the time of the best makeup and the device was called "digital domain ."
And the idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with visual pressures on etc., and begin to skip and start to jump in the same way.
And that's what we did, and we managed to get a competitive advantage.
But in the middle of the 1990s, we realized that we were in the Cre os ote design, and Charley design, which we actually started to build -- slowly.
I had written this piece of "Avatar ," which meant to push the measurement of visual effects and computer - generated effects in all new heights, with real human expressive characters that had been made using C G. and the main characters should be all C.
But the bar put it very nice back, and people in my company told me that we're not able to do casual.
So let me tell you if I did this, and I made this other film about the big ship that's going to end.
In the movie studio, I sold this as "Romeo and Juliet on a ship" -- it became a love film of epic proportions, a passionate film.
But secretly, I really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the Titanic.
So I made the film.
That's the truth. The studio didn' t know.
But I've convinced them by saying, "We' re going to go to the wreck, we're filming the wreck.
We will show it in the opening sequence of the film.
It's incredibly important. It' s a good - way tag on marketing ."
And I talked about them to fund an expedition.
Sounds crazy. But that's back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality.
We actually created a reality six months later, a reality where I found myself in a Russian submersible, four miles below the surface of the North Atlantic Ocean, and looked at the real Titanic through a bulldo zed.
This wasn't a movie, no high definition, that was real.
So that blew my mind.
And the amount of preparation was enormous, and we had to build cameras and light on the headlights.
And I noticed how much these deep - distance approaches, a space mission.
Well, they were also highly technical and highly sophisticated planning techniques.
You go up into this capsule, and then you float into this dark, hostile environment, where there's no hope for saving if you don' t get it back.
And I thought, "Wow, that's just as if I was in a science fiction movie.
It's really cool ."
I was literally obsessed with research on the deep sea.
Anyway, part of the part that has to do with curiosity and science, it was all. It was adventure, it was curiosity.
And there was an experience that could not give me Hollywood.
Because, you know, I could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect, but I couldn't imagine what I would see outside the window.
And with some of the following expeditions, I've seen creatures in There' s no words I'd never seen before, sometimes things that no one had ever seen before, and for the science at the time when we saw them, there was no words whatsoever.
So this blew me right, and I wanted more.
And so I made a little unusual decision.
After the success of "Titanic", I told myself, "Okay, I want to put my major professional professional writer in Hollywood, and I'm going to spend a time full - time researcher ."
And then we started planning these expeditions.
We showed up to the Bis mar ck, and we explored robotic vehicles.
We went back to the wreck of the Titanic.
We took little robots that we built on, which became a fiber optic cable.
Our intent was to dive inside and look at the inside of the boat, which never had been done before.
Nobody's ever explored the inside of the bathtub, you' ve had no means for that.
So now, I'm sitting on the deck of Titanic, in a dive boat, and I see Plan ning that looks quite similar here, and I know that once played the band there.
And I fly with a little robotic vehicle, through the course of the ship.
I'm actually shopping for this, but my consciousness is within the vehicle.
It felt like I was physically within the shipyard of the Titanic.
This was the surreal form of a D é j ou j ou e that I've ever experienced, because before I walked around a corner, I always knew what was going on in the light of the vehicle, because for months, I' ve walked over the film for months when we turned the movie.
Because the set was a precise copy of the ship plans.
So this was a highly curious experience.
She consciously made me aware of this telepresence experience that you use such robotic avatars and so your own consciousness in the vehicle, in this other form of existence.
It was really profound.
And maybe even a little bit closer to what might happen in a few decades, if you have cyborg bodies to study something or do other things, in all sorts of post - humane utop ias that I can think of as science fiction.
After these expeditions, we started learning what we've seen down there, really appreciate, such as these deep sea sources, where we saw these incredible animals, these are sort of alien animals, but here on Earth.
They live with help of chemo synthesis.
They don't exist in a sunlight - based system that we do.
And so you can see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade.
Water cloud is living, and you can't imagine they can survive there.
At the same time, I was also interested in space science, and this was the science fiction impact from my childhood.
And so I ended up with the people who are interested in space and who are dealing with NASA and planning on NASA's issues and planning missions, and they' re going to go through Russia, and they're going to go through the mission of the biomedical protocol, and they' re running at international space, and then take our 3D cameras.
That was fascinating.
But at the end, it turned out that I took space scientist with us in the deep sea.
I took them with and begged them to access the world, astro biologists, planets, people interested in these extreme situations, and I took them to the sources of extreme situations so that they could look around and test them and test instruments and test them.
Now, we were doing documentary films, but we were actually doing science, more specifically, space science.
So the circle joined the circle between my existence as science fiction fan, then as a child and implementation in reality.
Over this exploration journey, I've learned a lot.
I learned a lot about science, but I also learned a lot about leadership style.
Now you're certainly thinking that a director must also lead, a leader has to be like a ship captains or something.
But I didn't understand much about leadership before I joined these expeditions.
Because at a certain point, I had to say, "What do I do here?
Why do I do that? What's coming out ?"
These stupid films don't bring us money.
We're just going to play the production cost of manufacturing.
Everybody thinks I've walked between the Titanic and "Avatar" and ," and I would have walked into the nails on a towel.
I've made all these films, these documentary films, for a very small audience.
No fame, no honor, no money, what are you doing?
You're doing it for the job, for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that we' re doing, and you're doing it for the disco theque because of the weird connection that comes when a small group of people builds up.
Because we've done all this with just 10 to 12 people who have worked with uninterrupted for years, sometimes we were two to three months in a row.
And in this community, you can see that the most important thing is the outcome that you have in front of each other because you've managed to overcome a job that you can' t explain to any other thing.
If you come back to the country and you say, "We had to do it, the Fi bers, the sound of the sound, and the whole technique, and the difficulties that the human performance is when you work on sea, you can't explain the other thing. It' s like police or military personnel who have gone through in common and know that they can't explain somebody.
There's a connection that mutual respect.
So when I came back to turn my next movie "Avatar ," I tried to apply the same leadership style, which is that you're respected his team and caring for respect.
It really changed the dynamic.
So I stood back with a small team on the unknown terrain, and we turned "Avatar" with a new technology that didn't exist before.
Amazing.
A tremendous challenge.
And we became a four - and - a - half years old for a time.
It transformed my way of making films completely.
There were people who thought we'd really done this ocean, and we' ve been trucked anywhere on planet Earth.
And for me, there was more organizational way to do my job that has changed the real process.
So what can we conclude from all of that?
What lessons do we learn?
I think the first place is curiosity.
It's the most powerful human property.
Our imagination is a force that can even create a reality.
And the Be aware of your team is more important than ever laure ls of the world.
To me, young filmmaker who says, "Give me a advice about how I can do this ."
And I say, "Don't help you yourself.
And it's got others for you. Do not bet you yourself, don' t bet against yourself, but take risks on you ."
NASA has such a favorite one, "failure is not an alternative ."
But in art and researching failure to be an alternative, because there will definitely be a trust of trust.
No important project called innovation, has ever been addressed without risk.
You have to be willing to take those risks.
And that's the idea that I' d like to give you on the path, and failure is an alternative, fear, but thank you.
If I want to bring you a little bit closer today, it's that the totality of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts, and instead of thinking about information overload, I want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns and we can see the trends that wouldn' t be visible.
So what we're seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age.
The program I use here is a little experiment.
It's called Pale ot and what I can do with P iv ot ie is that I can filter a certain cause of death, we say crashes.
And immediately, I see another pattern that makes up.
And that's because in the middle section, people are the most active and they are over here on the most sensitive.
We can go out a step further and rearrange the data and see that cardiovascular disease and cancer are the usual suspects, but not for everyone.
Now, when we go on, and when we place 40 years, we say that accidents are even the leading cause of accidents that people should worry about.
And who's going to elaborate, that' s true of men.
So you can see that the reputation of information and data in this way is reminded of swimming in a living information drawing.
And if we can do this for raw data, why can't we do it for content ourselves?
So what we've got here is the title of every single "sports Ac adem atus ," which have ever been printed.
It's all here. It' s all online.
You'd like to test it after my talk in your bedroom.
With pravastatin, they can dive into a decade.
They can dive into one particular year.
You can jump directly to a certain copy.
Now, if I look here, I see the athletes coming into this issue and the sports of sports.
I'm an opportunity Armstrong, so I click on here, so I' m going to invite all expenses into the Lance Armstrong.
Now, if I just want to get a co - largest overview, I could think, "Okay, what if I look at all with the topic ?"
So I step back, and he's going to take another perspective.
Now I see Greg Le mond.
And so you get an idea of that if you search on this kind of information, targeted, broader, broader, zoom in, you can't look out, you don' t just search or browse.
You do something that's actually slightly different.
It's something in between and we think it changes the way information can be used.
So I want to elaborate this idea a little bit about what a little bit crazy.
What we've done here is we took all single Wikip ed ians, and we' ve cut them down to a small summary.
So the summary contains a brief review and a symbol for the area that comes out.
I'm just showing the top 500 of the popular Wikip ed Wikip ed ians.
But even in that limited view, we can do a lot of things.
Immediately, we get an idea about the topics that are popular on Wikipedia.
I'm going to choose the issue of government.
Well, after I chose government's government, I realize that the Wikip ed ians who are most striking to cover Time magazine.
This is really important because this is a realization that isn't attached to a single Wikip ed Wikip ed ians.
And that's just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing.
If you look at a specific summaries of this summaries, I can go into the Time magazine "people of the year ," and all see together.
Now, if I look at all these people, I know that the majority of government officials are, some of the science people come from science, some are still coming from the economy, and here's my boss.
And interestingly, Bono is also a TED Prize winner.
So we can jump and take a look at all TED Prize winner.
You see, we surf the web the first time it's actually a web, not just by side, but much more abstract.
And so I want to show you what a little surprise might be.
I'm just going to show you the New York Times website.
PP, this application -- I don't want to call it a browser; it' s really not a browser, but you can look at websites -- and we bring these zoop technology on every single website like this.
So I can go back and jump right to a specific sem blance.
And that's why it' s important because you can just look through pages of websites in this way and look at all the Internet course throughout the same way.
So I can zoom in on my process in a certain time frame.
Here's the state of the entire demonstration that I' ve held up until here.
And I can sort of look at everything I've seen today, get back.
And when I pulled out a step back and look at everything, I can arrange my trajectory for my search past, and here I've been looking for "refresh ," here after B ing, or here' s live Labs.
And from here, I can go inside and call it up again.
It's a metaphor used over and over again, and every time it makes a big picture bigger than the sum of the data.
Right now, in this world, we think data is a curse.
We talk about the curse of the information flow.
We talk from drowning in information.
What if we could turn around this situation and turn the Internet on its head so that instead of going from one to another, we begin to go from many things to many things, and by detecting patterns that otherwise would be hidden?
If we can do this, this final data trap, maybe a new source of information.
And instead of just moving into information, we can get knowledge from it.
And if we learn knowledge, maybe we can even draw wisdom from it.
So I'm listening to that, thank you very much.
Everyone speaks about happiness today.
I've got some people who are counting the number of books called Happiness ."
There's a massive wave of interest in happiness among researchers.
There's a lot of happiness coach ing.
Everyone would like to make happier.
But despite all these tide of work, there are multiple cognitive traps that makes it almost impossible to think about happiness.
And my talk today is mainly about these cognitive traps.
This is true for La ia who thinks about their own happiness, and it's true for scientists who think about happiness because it turns out we' re just as messy as everyone else.
The first of these traps is a vulnerability to admit complexity.
It turns out that the word happiness is simply no longer a useful word, because we apply it to many different things.
And I think there's a certain meaning that we could just limit it, but by large and large, that' s something we need to give up, and we're going to embrace the complicated view of what' s being well - being.
The second trap is a change of experience and memory: basically it's between happy in his life and happy his life or happy with his life.
And these are two very different concepts, and they're both thrown together in the idea of happiness.
And the third is the concentration illusion, and that's the unfortunate fact that we can' t think about a fact that we can't be influenced by the well - being of being able to distort its meaning.
I mean, this is a real cognitive trap.
There's simply no way to get it right.
Now, I'd like to start with one example from someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that had documented a story.
And then he added, really, really emotionally, that ruins the whole experience.
But it didn't.
What it ruined, it had the memories of the experience.
He had had the experience.
He had had had 20 minutes of music.
They didn't miss out because he was left with a memory, the memory was ruined, and the memory was everything he could keep trying to keep it.
What really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and thinking about other people in the sense of self.
There's an experience of self living in the present and knowing the present is capable of experiencing the past, but essentially the present.
It's the head of the locker, the doctor' s office -- you know, if the doctor asks, "Do it hurt now when I summarize you ?"
And then there's a reminder of self, and the repairability self is that matters and receiving the story of our lives, and it' s the one that speaks to the physician by asking the question: "How did you feel lately ?"
or "How was your journey to Albania ?" or something like that.
These are two very different units, the self - assem bles, the grinding self, and the two is part of the mess of the term happiness.
Well, the Uber self is a storyteller.
And this really starts with a fundamental response to our memories -- it starts instantly.
We're not just telling stories about telling us about telling stories.
Our memory tells us stories, which means that we have to keep in experience of our experiences.
And let's start with an example.
There's an old study.
These are real patients who are doing a painful procedure.
I'm not going to go into detail, and it' s not painful today, but it was painful than that study in the 1990s.
They were asked to report all 60 seconds about their pain.
And here are two patients. These are their records.
And you're asked, "Who of both suffered more ?"
And this is a very simple question.
Patient B clearly has suffered more, and his gut level was longer, and every minute of pain, the patient A had patient B, and more.
But now there's another question: "How much did these patients think they were suffering ?"
And here's a surprise.
And the surprise is that patient A has much worse remembering the gut level of gut level.
The stories of the gut level were different, and because a very critical part of history is how it ends.
And no one of these stories is very, very large, but one of them is clear, but one of them is clearly worse than the other.
And the worse is the one where the pain was at the end of its peak, it's a terrible story.
How do we know that?
Because we asked these people after their gut level, and also a lot later, "How bad was the whole thing ?"
And she was much worse for A than B in recalling it.
Well, that's a direct conflict between experiencing self and remembering self.
In the view of the self, B clearly had a worse time.
Now, what you could do with patient A, and we've actually done clinical trials, and it' s been done, and it's actually worked, you could actually extend the gut level of patient by simply making the hose in there without too much shaking.
That's going to lead the patient suffering, but just a little bit less than before.
And if you've done that for a few minutes, you' ve made a difference that the su asion self is worse, and you've made a decision that the adult is a lot better off, because now you' ve given patient a better story about his experience.
What does a story look like?
And that's true for the stories that memory provides us and also true for the stories we invent.
What happens is a story of inquiry, significant moments and ends.
The ends are very, very important, and in this case, dominant.
Well, the drunk self lives are continuously alive.
It has moments of life, one after another.
And you ask, what happens with these moments?
And the answer is really simple. They're lost forever.
I mean, most moments of our lives -- and I've calculated this -- you know, the psychological present is about three seconds long, and what you know is that there are about 600 million of them, and in a month, there are about 600 million of them.
Most of them are completely ignored by the self.
And yet, you kind of get the impression that they should count on what happened during these moments of life.
It's the limited resource we consume during this world.
And as we use it seems to be important, but that's not the story that makes the wetsuits self for us.
So we've got the shower and the self - assem bles, and they' re really quite different.
The biggest difference between them is dealing with time.
From the point of view, even if you've got a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first one, the two - week vacation is twice as good as a week vacation.
That's how it doesn' t work for the multiplying self.
For the Uber self, a two - week vacation is barely better than a week vacation because there's no new memory.
They didn't change history.
And in this way, time is actually the critical variable that can remind you of self - different from experiencing self, and time has very little impact on this story.
Well, the courty ards make more than remembering and telling stories.
It's actually the one that makes decisions, because if you have a patient who told us two gut levels of gut levels in two different surgeons and decides what to choose, then the message that they choose is the memory that has less bad and that is the surgeon who is chosen.
The extr aneous self has no voice in that choice.
In fact, we don't choose between experiences.
And even if we think about the future, we don't usually think about our future as experiences.
We think about our future as a predictive memory.
And basically, you can look at this, you know, as an tyranny of self, and you can think of the wetsuit as one that sort of rides har ing the self - assembly of self - perpetuating self.
I have the idea that if we're on vacation, it' s very often the case, that means we're going to leave vacation largely on the services of self.
And that's a little hard to justify, I think.
I mean, how much do we expect our memories?
This is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the self.
And when I think about it, I think about a vacation that we've made a few years ago on Antarctica, which was clearly the best vacation I' ve ever had, and I think relatively often in relation to how many other vacation I think.
And I've probably heard of my memories about this three - week journey, and I' d say about 25 minutes long.
Now, if I ever opened the folder of the 600 images in it, I would have spent another hour.
Well, these are three weeks, and it's only a half - hour.
There seems to be a incongr uity.
Well, I like a little bit extreme, you know how little appetite I have on the toe pad, but even if you do more of it, there's a real question, why do we give memories so much weight in losing weight?
So I want you to think about a thought experiment.
Imagine her next holiday, you know that at the end of the vacation, all your images will be destroyed, and you get an Amnesty drug so you will remember nothing.
Now, would you choose the same vacation? And if you'd choose another vacation, there' s a conflict between your two species and you have to think about how you decide that conflict and that's really not obvious at all, because if you think in the sense of time, you' re going to have an answer, and if you're thinking about a different answer.
Why do we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that provides us with a choice between the two species of self.
Well, the two species of self - throw two words from happiness.
There are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply, one per self.
So you can ask: How happy is the raising of the su asion?
And then you would ask: How happy are the moments in life experience the self?
And they're all -- happiness for moments is a rather complicated process.
What are the emotions that can be measured?
And by the way, we're able to get a pretty good idea of happiness and experience the self over time.
If you remember the lucky self, it's a very different thing.
This is not about how happy a person lives.
It's about how satisfied or delighted the person when this person thinks about her life.
Very different term.
Everyone who doesn't seem to be different from studying happiness, and I belong to a lot of researchers about well - being scientists who are studying happiness for a long time.
The distinction between the happiness of the self and happiness of the self - satisfaction of the self has been recognized in the last few years, and now you're trying to measure the two realities.
The Gallup Organization has been asked a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and over their experiences.
So in the last few years, we started learning about the happiness of the two species.
And the main lesson that we think is that they're really different.
You can know how happy someone with his life is, and it doesn't teach them much about how happy he lives and vice versa.
Just to give you a sense of correlation that's about five.
What that means is that if you hit someone, you would say, oh, his father is a two - meter man, how much would you know about your size?
Well, you would know something about its size, but there's a lot of uncertainty.
They have so much uncertainty.
If I tell you that somebody else has turned his life on an eight scale from 10, you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his self.
So the correlation is low.
We know something about the happiness of happiness self - expression.
We know that money is very important, goals are very important.
We know that happiness mostly means to be satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like.
There are other pleasure, but that's dominant.
So if you want to maximize the happiness of the two species of self, you will end up doing very different things.
And the conclusion from what I said here is that we really shouldn't think of happiness as a replacement for well - being.
It's a completely different term.
Well, quite briefly, another reason we can't think about happiness is that we don' t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live.
So if you ask the simple question, how happy people are in California, you're not going to get the right answer.
If you ask that question, you think that people in California have to be happier if you say we live in Ohio.
And what happens is that if you think about life in California, think about the difference between California and other places, and that difference is what we say in the climate.
Well, it turns out that climate is not very important for the su asion self, and it's not even very important for finding myself who decides how happy people are.
Now, because this is responsible self - responsibility, you can end up with some people at the end of California.
And it's kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to California hoping to become happier.
Now, you're not going to get happier.
We know that.
But one thing is going to happen, and you'll think they' re happier, because if they think about it, it's a terrible weather in Ohio, and they' ll feel they've made the right decision.
It's very difficult to think about well - being, and I hope I' ve given you a sense of how difficult it is.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thank you.
Thank you.
Now, when we've been on the phone a few weeks ago, you' ve told me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this mountain poll.
Is this something that you can participate in, because now you have a few minutes left?
Daniel Kel ley: Sure.
I think the most exciting results that we found in the Gallup survey is a number that we didn't expect.
And we found that in terms of happiness the experience of self.
When we looked at how feelings vary with income.
And it turns out that under a income of 60, 000 dollars a year, for Americans, and this is a very large sample of Americans, about 600, 000, but it's a big representative sample, under a income of 600, 000 dollars a year.
CA: 60, 000.
DK: 60, 000.
60, 000 dollars a year, people are unhappy, and they become increasingly unhappy, the poorer they will become.
And we get that absolutely flat line.
I mean, I rarely saw so flat lines.
What's happening is obviously that money can' t come up with an experience of happiness, but that scarcity of money will come from a misery and we can measure this misery very clearly.
In the sense of self, the self, remember self, you get another story.
The more money you deserve.
That's not true for emotions.
CA: But Danny, throughout the American endeavor, freedom, freedom, the pursuit of happiness.
If people took this deepest serious, I mean, it seems to put everything on your head, all we think, for example, in terms of tax policy and so on.
Is there a chance of politicians that the country would generally take a valid way seriously and make based on politics?
DK: You know, I think there's recognition for the role of happiness in politics.
The recognition will be slow in the United States, no question, but in the U. K., it's happening and in other countries, it' s happening right now.
People are understanding that they should think of happiness when they think about politics.
It will take a while, and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience experience happiness or whether they want to study life review, so we need to lead this discussion pretty soon.
How do you get lucky enough to increase very differently depending on how you think and whether you think about the cutting edge of the locker, or whether you think about the cutting self - edge.
It's going to affect politics, I think, in the coming years.
In the United States, you tend to focus on measuring the experience of happiness.
That's what I think is going to be part or two decades of national statistics.
CA: Well, it seems to me that subject matter, or should at least the most exciting political debate for the next few years.
Thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics.
Thank you, Danny Kel vin.
Today, I'm talking to you about energy and climate.
And this may surprise you, because my full - time jobs began mainly by vaccines and seeds to create the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest 2 billion a better life.
But energy and climate is extremely important for these people, even more important than anyone on the planet.
In worse, climate condition means that their Save over many years, we're going to rain too much or too little, and things will change as it can' t withstand their fragile environment.
This leads to hunger; it leads to uncertainty.
So, climate change will become terrible for them.
The price of energy is very important for them.
In fact, if you could reduce the price of poverty, poverty would be by far the most effective.
Well, the price of energy has fallen over time.
In fact, the progress society continues on energy.
The dairy reservoir, the Industrial Revolution, and even in the 20th century, there was a rap nel case in electricity, and therefore we have refrigerators, the climate plants, we can make modern materials and do so many things.
So we're in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world.
But if we cut down the price -- let's halve the price -- we' ll hit a new barrier and that barrier is associated with CO2.
CO2 warmed the planet and the equation for CO2 is actually pretty clear.
They're squ andering carbon that leads to increased temperature, and that temperature has increased very negative effects, effects on weather and maybe worse, depending on the surface of the natural ecosystems can' t adapt to such rapid change and collapse.
Well, the exact correlation between a carbon increase, and the resulting temperature changes and where the other consequences are, there are some ambiguity, but not very many.
And there's certain ambiguity about how bad these consequences are, but they' re going to be extremely bad.
I asked the top scientist several times, "Do we really need to get down near zero?
Enough half or a quarter ?"
And the answer is, until we get close to zero, the temperature will continue.
So it's a big challenge.
It's very different than saying, we have a three - foot truck that has to crush under a three - foot bridge, and then you can basically squeeze underneath it.
This has to go down, down to zero.
Well, we're hitting a subset of carbon dioxide, over 26 billion tons.
Every American, about 20 tons, people from poor countries, less than one.
On average, it's about 5 ton for every planet.
And somehow, we need to produce change that down to zero.
There's always been constant.
Only different economic changes have influenced at all, and we need to go down and reduce the increase in reducing and down to zero.
This equation has four factors, a little bit multi - multiplication, and you've got this thing on the left - hand carbon, and it' s dependent on the number of people who are dependent on the average of every human average energy, the average energy for every service and the carbon per unit that will be delivered.
So let's look at each one factor and think about how we get to zero.
Probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero.
Now this is basic algebra, but let's go through it.
First, we have the population.
Today, 6. 8 billion people live.
And it goes down to 9 billion.
If we're very successful with new vaccines, the job of disposal and reproduction medicine, we might probably reduce that by 10 percent to 15 percent, but at the time we' re seeing a slope to 1.
The second factor are the services we use.
This includes all the food we eat, clothes, television, heating.
These are very good things and poverty allevi ation means to make these services accessible to almost every single planet.
It's great that this number goes up.
In the rich world, in the upper billion, we might be able to cut down tri b ors and use less, but average, that number will go up every year and double more than double, the number of services are provided per person.
So here we see a very basic service, is there at home light so you can read the homework?
And these students don't have it, so they go out and read their school tasks under the street.
Well, efficiency, the power per service, there's finally good news.
We have something that doesn't go up.
Because of different successes in the light sector, through other car phenoty pes, through new methods in building, there's a lot of services that you can reduce the cost you' re drastically reduced, 10 3, 000. 05: 50, 000 -- 1, 000 -- 53, 000 services are leaving to reduce 90 percent.
Some individual services are reducing 90 percent.
In other services like the land ender, 105 00 AM: 56, 000 -- Dr. 05: 58, 000 or air traffic safety, the gap is very small.
In total, if we're optimistic, we might get a reduction in size or maybe even by a factor 6.
But for the first three factors, we've now gone from 26 billion to the very best 13 billion tons, and that' s just not enough.
So let's look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that' s the amount of CO2 that goes per unit of energy.
It turns out whether you can get it to zero.
If you burn coal: No.
If you burn natural gas: No.
Almost every time that we do this, we use CO2, except the renewables and nuclear at all.
So what we need to do on a global level is to create a new system.
We need energy.
Now, if I use the term "miracle ," I don't mean the impossible.
The microprocessor is a miracle. The PC is a miracle.
The Internet and services are a miracle.
People here have contributed to developing many of these miracles.
Usually, there's no deadline for a miracle to take a certain date.
And normally you're just wrong with them, and some of them don' t come.
But in this case, we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time.
Well, I asked myself, how can I really bring this over?
Is there a natural illustration, a demonstration that sparked human beings here?
I remembered last year when I brought mosquitoes and somehow people liked it.
The idea was palpable; you know that there are people who live with mosquitos.
And for energy, this caught me.
I decided that the release of fireflies would be my year - old contribution to the environment here.
So here are some natural fireflies.
You told me that they don't bite. In fact, they' re probably not going to leave the glass.
Well, there's all kinds of players, like this, but they don' t get much.
We need solutions, either one or several that have unthinkable scaling and unthinkable; and even though there's a lot of directions that people are searching for after that, I really only see five who can afford these big demands.
I've got tides, geothermal, biofuels and biofuels.
These may be a moderate amount of contribution, and if they do better than I expect, that would be great, but my core statement here is that we need to work on all of those five, and we can't give up one of them because they daunting problems.
Let's first look at burning fossil fuels, burn from either coal or natural gas.
What you need to do there may seem simple, but it's not.
There are some pilot projects that are creating at a 60 percent level, but it's getting really difficult to get 100 percent, and there' s a grant for the growth camp that's a big challenge, but the biggest problem here is the lago on.
Who will make it safe?
Who can guarantee something that literally millions of times bigger than any kind of waste that you can imagine from nuclear and other things?
It's a lot of volume.
So this is a tough nut.
Next: nuclear fission.
They also have three big problems, and the cost, especially in the rainy countries are high, and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human collaboration that the fuel is not used for weapons.
And what do you do with the waste?
Because even though it's not very big, there' s a lot of concerns.
People have to feel good at this: 18 4, 000 -- 10, 000 -- 00 1: 25, 000, so three very difficult problems that might be solvable.
So three very difficult problems that might be solvable, and that's why we should work.
The last three of the five, I put together.
It's the renewables they' re often called.
And also, though it's great that they don' t need fuel -- they have some downside.
One is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power of power plants.
These are energy farms, and you're talking about many square kilometers, a thousand times more land than a normal power plant.
And moreover, these sources of interruptions.
The sun doesn't seem the whole day, it doesn' t seem to hurt every day, and the wind doesn't always hurt.
That's why you have to depend on these sources, a way to get energy even if you' re not available at times.
So there's a big prize out there, and there' s challenges in transmission, and if we say that the energy source is outside the country, you don't just need the technology, you also need to deal with the risk that the energy from where it comes from.
And there's this storage problem.
And to show the dimension of the dimension, I've made all kinds of batteries that are made, looked at the cars, computers, cell phones, lamps, for everything, and that' s what I've used to use with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses, compared to me that all the batteries we now produce less than 10 minutes of the total amount of energy storage.
So we need a big breakthrough, something that's going to be 100 percent better than the approaches to time.
It's not impossible, but it' s not that easy.
This is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent of your consumption.
If you want to rely on 100 percent, you need an incredible battery.
Well, where are we going to go, what is the right approach?
A Manhattan project? How do we get to the target?
What we need is a lot of companies working on it.
In each of these five areas, we need at least 100 people.
You're going to say, well, these are nuts.
I think here in the TED group there are many who are already engaged in there.
Bill L has several companies, among other things, a called solar cooker has the great equivalent of technologies.
Vincent K rem lin is invested in dozens of companies making great things and interesting opportunities, and I try to support that.
Nathan Myhrvold and I fund a company who, maybe surprisingly, has been following the nuclear approach.
There are some innovations in the nuclear section; modular, liquid.
The development in this industry has stopped some time ago, so it's not a big surprise that some good concepts are around.
The Ter cell phone concept means that instead of one part of the uranium, which one percent of the U 2 35, we decided to burn the 99 percent, the U. K.
This is a pretty crazy idea.
But in fact, you've been thinking about it for a long time, but you' ve never been able to simulate it properly, but since then there's modern supercomputer, you can simulate it and see that yes, yes! With the right materials, it looks like it' s functional.
And because you burn these 99 percent, the cost profile is very much better.
In fact, you burn the waste, and you can even use the waste of today as a propulsion system.
Instead of breaking your head, you just burn it. It's a great thing.
The uranium is going to take a little bit like a candle.
You can see it's a kind of pillar, often known as "walking wave of reactor ."
That really solves the fuel problem.
Here's a picture of a place in Kentucky.
This is the waste, the 99.
That drives the U. S. for hundreds of years.
And if you're pumping ocean water cheaply and simple, you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet' s lifetime.
You know, there are many challenges, but it's an example of many hundreds of ideas that we need to get forward.
Let's think about how we should measure our success.
What should our testimony look like?
Well, let's go to the target we need to reach and then talk about the step.
Many talk about an 80 percent reduction in 2050.
It's really important that we get there.
The rest of 20 percent are produced in poor countries, and still there's a agriculture, and hopefully it' s going to be a forest raw and cement until that's going to clean.
So to get those 80 percent, the developed world, including countries like China, to change their electricity generation.
The other note says whether we use zero emissions in technology, whether it's used in all developed countries, and we' re on the way to get them to the rest.
That's great.
This is a key piece of this report card.
If we go back from there, what should the report testimony?
It should contain the two elements again.
We should use the efficiency measures to get reduction on the way, and the less we enter, the less the carbon sum will be the carbon sum, and that's the temperature.
But in fact, this grade is for the things we do, which are not entirely leading to the big reduce markets, just or even slightly less important than the other that is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs.
And we've got to track these breakthroughs with full gas, and we can measure this: in companies, in pilot projects and regulation.
There are lots of great books on this issue.
The Al Gore book, "We have the choice and David Mc Ka thr ain't Energy Ho ck y fuel stations ."
They're really going to go through and create a framework where this can be discussed, because we need the support of all sides.
There are some things that need to come together.
This is a wish.
A very concrete wish we invent this technology.
If you just give me a wish for the next 50 years, I could choose the president, a vaccine, and I love that wish, or I could choose this wish, half - controlled energy bill without CO2 being invented.
This has the biggest impact.
If we don't get that wish, the rift is going to be terrible in the trench between the long - term people, between the United States and China, between poor and rich countries, and almost all of these two billion will be worse.
So what do we need to do?
For what do I appeal to?
We need to utilize more research money.
If countries are meeting in places like cop hages, they shouldn't just talk about CO2.
You should talk about this innovation strategy, and you would be shocked by the low construction sector spent on these innovative approaches.
We need market balance, carbon taxes, Cap & Trade, something that creates a pricing signal.
We need to spread the message.
We need to make dialogue rational and full of the things that are done by government.
It's a more important wish, but I think we can do it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Chris Anderson: Thanks.
Thank you very much. Just to understand Ter ra power, first time, can you give us an idea of scale of this investment?
Bill Gates: To run the simulation on a supercomputer, get all the great scientist, what we've done, we just need a few 10 million, and even if we tested our materials in a Russian reactor to make sure it' s reasonable, it's just in the 100 million.
The difficult step is to build the first site at the site, find additional billions, the regulation and the place that actually builds the first of it.
Once the first thing is done, if it's going to go like a promised, it' s all very clear, because the economics, the energy density is so different than at the age of nucle otides, as we know it.
CA: To understand that correctly, that means building deep in the ground almost like a vertical fuel, this degrading uranium fuel, and then the process starts at the bottom?
BG: Exactly. Today, you've got to fill out the reactor, so there' s lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong, and this thing that you open it up and puts things in -- it's not good!
But if you have a very cheap fuel, you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column that you bury without all the complex ities.
And it's sitting there and it burns 60 years and then it' s finished.
CA: A nuclear reactor that offers itself a solution for the waste.
BG: Yeah. Well, what happens to the garbage: You can sit it -- there's a lot less waste with this method -- then take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it.
And we start by taking the waste that's already there that' s already in this cold pool or dry cleaners in the reactors, which is our launch fuel cell.
So what's a problem for these reactors is a problem that we fill in our lives, and it' s going to reduce the waste volume of waste in the process.
CA: But while you've talked to different people in this world about these possibilities.
Where is the greatest interest in creating this?
BG: Well, we haven't set ourselves up in a place, and there' s a lot of interesting open rules for everything that's called nuclear, and there' s a lot of interest and the people of the company in Russia, India, China -- I was here and I've met the Minister of energy and talked about how this fits into energy.
I'm optimistic. You know, the French and Japanese did something in the direction.
This is a version of one thing that was done.
And this is an important step forward, but it's like a reactor, and some countries built this, so that' s why everyone who has done a quick reactor for our first.
CA: In your mind, time frame and probability and calling something really to live in life?
BG: Well, we need one of these scalable things that are very cheap, we've got 20 years to invent and then put 20 years into one.
This is sort of the Dead line that has shown us the environment models that we need to hold.
And, you know, Ter race power if everything's fine, and that' s a big wish, could it be easy.
And luckily, there are dozens of companies today, and we need hundreds of them, just as if their approaches worked for their pilots to do it.
And it would be best if it could create multiple, because then you could use a mixture.
Anyway, we need a solution.
CA: care shrinking of the big breakthroughs, this is the best you know?
BG: There's one energy coming through.
It would have been also without the environmental challenge, but that's more important.
In nuclear sector, there are other innovative companies.
You know, we don't know whose work is not as good as these, but there' s the modular method, which is another approach.
There's a liquid assembly line that seems difficult, but perhaps they' re telling us about us.
And so there are different, but the beautiful thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one, let's say that a coal molecule and therefore, if you can deal with the problems, the footprint, the footprint and the costs, the potential, the impacts on the country and other things almost in their own league.
CA: If that doesn't work, then what happens?
Do we need to provide emergency work to try to keep the Earth temperature stable?
BG: If you come to this situation, it's like you' ve eaten too much, and just before a heart attack, what do you do? You might need a heart surgery or something like that.
There's a research facility called reCAPTCHA, which relates to various techniques to delay warming, so that we' ll get 20 or 30 years longer to get together.
This is just an insurance method.
You hope that we don't need it.
Some people say you shouldn't even work on insurance because you might get rid of it so you keep eating, because you know that saving your heart surgery.
I don't know if that' s smart, if you're going to lead the importance of this problem, but now there' s a discourse in bioengineering, whether you should have available things faster, or that innovation needs longer than we expect.
CA: Climate change den iers: Do you have one or two sentences for you to convince you?
BG: Well, unfortunately, the skeptics are living in very different camps.
Those who make scientific arguments are very little.
Tell them that there are negative effects that we have to do with the clouds moving around?
There are very, very few things that can tell you at all, that there's a chance in a million.
The main problem here is, like AIDS.
You make the mistake now, and you pay a lot later.
And that's why the idea is that if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you' ve got later on -- and that's where the investment isn' t so clear, and in fact, the IPCC are not necessarily the worst scenario, and there are people in the rich world who look at the IPCC and say, okay, this is not a big drama.
The fact is that this uncertainty should concern us.
But my dream here is that if you can do economic economically, and at the same time, the skeptics say, "Okay, I don't care that it doesn' t do any carbon investigation, I just wish I did it, but I'm going to accept it because it' s cheaper than the previous method ."
CA: And that would be your answer to the B j ork, then that if you use all these time and energy to solve the CO2 problem, all the other targets that have decreased the poverty, the fighting of malaria and so forth that there's a stupid waste of resources to invest in money while there' s better things that we can do.
BG: Well, the actual spending on research -- let's say that the U. S. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that' s not so dramatic.
Below that, they shouldn't suffer.
And you're entering great money, and you can disagree with reasonable people if you' ve got something that's not economic, and you' re trying to fund that, because for me, most of a waste.
Because it's because you' re very short before a fail, and it's only funded by the learning curve, and I think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper.
If the crip pling that you get, a very high energy price, then only the rich will keep up.
I mean, every one of us here could spend five times on our energy without changing the lifestyle.
But for the bottom two billion, it's a disaster.
And even L om ay then thinks about it.
His new M pocket is now: "Why is the research not being discussed anymore ?"
He's still associated with his earlier stories associated with the skeptics, but he understood that this is a very lonely group, and that' s why he's doing research on the research.
And that's a mind that I think is appropriate for this.
Research, it's just crazy how little it' s supporting.
CA: Bill, I think I'm speaking to almost all of the people here when I say, I really hope your wish will come true.
BG: Thank you.
I'd like to tell you a little bit about what I was writing about a piece of paper a few months ago.
I've always been willing to talk to you about the dictionary, but I' ve done with the wiring of the text, and I noticed that I've never been beaten up in my life, which means "disabled" really means disabled ."
I'll read you the post.
"disabled ," adject ives," smashed, helpless, destroyed, mutil ates, wounded, wounded, wounded, mut ed out.
Ant ony: Healthy, strong, powerful, powerful ."
I read this list of friend loud, and I had to laugh at once, it seemed so ridiculous, but I just came up until "and I couldn't talk anymore, and I had to stop reading and collect myself after that, after that failure - type word nugget and connected the emotional shock shock shock shock.
Of course, this was a sophisticated dictionary, synonymous with a dictionary, and I just thought that the copy needs to be pretty old.
But in fact, it was a copy of the early 1980s, when I started working with elementary school, and that started building my self - image outside of my family environments, and also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me.
And thank God, I didn't use synonymous with that time.
If I took this post seriously, I was born in a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose lives can be lost in a mortal way, but today I'm going to be celebrated for the opportunities and adventure I' ve been celebrated.
So I immediately called the online edition of 2009, and I expected that I find a more appealing contribution.
Here's the updated version of this post.
Unfortunately, it's not much better.
Specifically, the last two words under "N ony Gr ants ,"" completely and healthy ."
But it's not just the words.
It's about what we think about the people we describe with these words.
It's about the values that stick in these words, and how we construct these values.
Our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and people around us.
Many ancient species of ancient species, including the Greeks and the Romans, really believed that the pronunciation has a big force because what you're talking about is manifest themselves.
So what do we actually want to manifest themselves -- an disabled people or a powerful human?
In fact, even if you're going to call an eight - year - old kid, it could limit them, and they' re doing ideas about it.
Wouldn't it be nice to open your doors?
A human who opened open door for me was my pediatrician, and I.
He's called Dr. P izar ro. It' s a blinds American whose name you can think that most Americans couldn't pronounce correctly, so he was always called Dr. P. P.
And Dr. P. P. was always filled with very colored flight for children just like this.
I found the time I spent in this hospital, just great -- until my physical physical physi ologist.
I had to do every single exercise seemingly endless with these thick thick, elastic B -- in different colors -- you know, to build my leg muscles, and I hated these tapes more than anything else; I hated them.
And imagine, I've even been having a five - year - old child with Dr. P. P., trying to stop those exercises, of course without success.
And one day, he observed me with one of my exercises -- these exercises were just tiring and go off -- and he said to me, "Wow, Aimee, you're such a strong, powerful and young girls, you' ll tear one of those tapes.
And if you make it, I give you 100 dollars ."
And of course, this was just a simple trick of Dr. P., so I do the exercises I didn't want to do with the prospect of becoming the richest five - year - old girl in the second floor, but he actually brought me to see my daily exercises with new eyes, so this became a new and promising experience.
And I'm wondering today, how much his vision of me has shaped as strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self, and I could imagine myself as a powerful, powerful, powerful and climbing human beings.
It's just an example of many, like adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child.
But as the quoted examples of explaining how to explain dictionaries, we don't allow our language to imagine what we would all wish to do: to allow each individual to see themselves as powerful people.
Our language has taken behind the societal changes that have been triggered by a technological change.
From the medical standpoint, of course, you can say that my legs, the laser of Surgery in Titan and artificial hips for aging and artificial hats on aging bodies that allow people to really use all their possibilities and evolve beyond the limits that they're not going to speak natural destiny, not to speak about social networks, create social networking, create an identity,
and they're driven by groups around the world by choosing them.
So maybe it's a little bit more clear to this technological change, because it' s always a different truth, that every human being can give something very special and very powerful and that the human ability to adapt, our biggest asset is our biggest asset.
The human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story, because people always ask me to tell me how to go and make a difference, and I'm going to confess to you: this phrase never fits me, and I' ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people, and I think I understand why.
And that sentence with adversity lives from the idea that success or luck depends on trying to master a challenge without being shaped by the connected experience, and as if my life would be so successful, because I could run the impossible of a life with a prosthetic limb, or how people could perceive me with my disability.
But the truth is that we change ourselves, of course, we're shaped by the challenge, whether it' s physical, emotionally or even both.
And I'm saying that' s good.
And odds are no obstacle that we need to get better at making our lives better.
There's a role in our lives.
And I tend to see advers ities as my shadow.
Sometimes I realize that he's very present, sometimes he' s hardly seeing, but he's constantly at me.
And I don't want to get the impact or the severity of a human struggle.
There are challenges in life and challenges, and they're just too real, and each person is going to go differently, but the question is not whether we come with adversity or not, but how we deal with it.
So we're not just responsible for saving people we love to preserve dest in ies, but they also prepare it for getting good.
And we don't do a favor when we give them the feeling that they can' t adapt.
You've got to clear two things: one of the medical fact that you' re an amputee, and for the other social opinion about whether I'm disabled or not.
And to be honest, the only real and permanent disability that I had to break apart is that the world constantly means to describe me to this definitions.
In our desire to protect the people who are at heart and tell them the cold, hard truth about their medical forecast or even to give a prediction of quality of life that they expect, we need to look after the foundation that someone is actually disabled.
Perhaps the idea of the moment is just about what is broken in a broken way, and how we repair that, for every single greater disability than the pathology.
If we treat a human not entirely unification, not all of its forces and possibility and recognizing, we'll also create addition to the natural struggle that they may have to lead, another disease.
We de classify a human that has value for our society.
So we've got to look beyond the pathologist and focus on all of the human possibilities.
But most importantly, there's between perception of our flaws and our great ingenuity, connection.
We shouldn't deny those challenging times or deny, we shouldn' t try to avoid them, nor should we turn them under the rug, but it's about recognizing odds.
I think it's more likely to make me realize that we don' t necessarily have to overcome advers ities, but that we're open to embrace them and put them on the pot to use a struggle and maybe even dance with it.
And maybe we're creating it, adversity as something natural, consistent and useful and feel that way through their presence.
In this year, we celebrate the 200 th birthday of Charles Darwin and when he wrote about 150 years ago about evolution, Darwin, in my eyes, he pointed to something very true in the human character.
I would write it like this: not the most powerful species survives, and also not the smartest of his species, but the one that can adjust to the best.
There are creativity coming from conflict.
Not only from Darwin's work, we know that the ability of human beings to survive and flourishing from the war of mind is governed by conflict.
So again, change and adaptation are the greatest capacity of human beings.
And maybe we just know what wood we're doing when we' re really being tested.
Perhaps that's what makes sense of adversity, a perception of what I' m, a sense of our own power.
We can give ourselves something like this.
We can make advers ities make a new meaning beyond severe times.
Maybe we can see advers ities as change.
Which leads to a change that we haven't adapted to.
I think the biggest damage we've added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal.
Let's face it?
There's no normal.
There's the usual. The guy, but it' s not the normal, and if you really want to know that poor, gray person really want to know if they really existed?
I don't think more.
It would be great if we could release this paradigm of normality at a different set of choices or strength to even get it slightly more dangerous, exchange, so we can release the forces of very many children, and invite them to bring their very special and valuable capabilities into society.
Anthropo cene, we found that we have always claimed to be useful and to make a contribution.
There are hints at the Neanderthals 60, 000 years ago that older people and people have worn with severe physical injuries, and that might happen because the life experience of survival was precious for the society.
They didn't look at these people as broken and useless; they were treated as something special and valuable.
A few years ago, I went to the city where I grew up in a food market in those "Red Zone ," and I stood up in the northeast of Pennsylvania.
It was summer, and I had Sh ree.
And I hear how a guy behind me says, "Well, if that's not Aimee Mull ins ."
And I look around and I see this older man.
And I said, "Sorry, sir, do we know?
And he said, "Well, you'll hardly remember me.
When I first saw you, I took you out of your stomach ."
Oh, yeah.
And of course, it's fine.
This was Dr. Kean, a man that I knew only from my mother's stories about this day because of course, I was very typical to visit my birthday two weeks later.
The doctor's medical diagnostics of my mother was on vacation, and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all.
And because I was born without W ugs legs, and my feet had pointed at them, and I just had a few toes on the other foot at the other foot, he was the crossing of the sp ies, this stranger had to bring the bad news.
He said to me, "I had to tell your parents that you would never walk, and would never be as moving as other children or that you could never lead an independent life, and since you just got me lying ."
I really found out that he had collected newspaper samples from my entire childhood, no matter if I won a spelling competition in the second class, whether I had won the fin ners at the same time, whether I had been my scholarship or a sporting event, and he used those clips to teach his students to teach his students in medicine.
And he called this part of his course, the X factor, the potential of human will.
You can't just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for the quality of life.
And Dr. Kean told her, he said, "I've learned that kids when they don' t always get anything else, and even if they get a little bit of support, if you leave children with themselves, children can get a lot better ."
See Dr. Kean changed his thinking.
He understood that medical diagnosis, and as someone dealing with it, two different things are.
And I also changed my thinking during the course of the time when they asked me at the age of 15, whether I had traded my prosthetic legs for meat and bone, I wouldn't have been hes itated.
I really wanted to work normal then.
If you ask me this today, I'm not sure.
And this happened, W I L I was experiencing something with my legs and not T RO T of these experiences.
And perhaps that change could happen also because I've met so many people who have opened my doors, instead of hitting people who are restrictive to me or trying to make a sense of their gut.
See, it really takes only one person who can show you how you manifest your powers, and you're through.
If you allow someone to activate their own inner forces, the human mind is so willing -- if you can do that, if you can open it for someone in a critical moment, open a door for those people, you're a very good teacher.
They teach them to open doors themselves.
The real meaning of the word "othe lin" in root ," in the word "othe ri ."
It means to produce something that's in a way that tickle the potential.
Again, what potential do we want to access?
In the 1960s, in the U. K., a case study that was converted to private schools in total schools.
They call this "Fr aming, we call it a tracking device.
Students are divided into grades.
And the A school student gets harder to review, they get better teachers and so on.
And then over a three - month period of students with a "Out of the note" Very good ," and they told them they were asbes tos, and they were really smart, and after these three months, they really wrote a really clever one.
And of course, it breaks down to hear a heart that the other way around students was said they were just sufficient.
And that's exactly the same thing after the three months.
But just those who were still in school -- apart from the students who had thrown school.
And it was very crucial to this study that the teachers weren't confined.
The teachers didn't know that something changed.
They were simply told that they were the one - student students, and they're the students with the grade enough, and as they taught them, they' re treated.
The only disability is a broken mind that broke loose mind, has no hope anymore, and he doesn't find anything beautiful; he lacks our natural, childhood curiosity, and our innate ability of imagination.
But if we create it, to support the human mind, continue to hope, to find yourself and other people around us beautiful, curious, to be creative and fanciful fanciful.
If a mind has these qualities, we can create a new reality and create new existence.
I want to end with a poem written by a Persian poet called H ices ter in the 14th century, and it's written by my friend Jacques Cousteau, and the poem called "The God who only knows four words ."" Every child knows God, not the god of God, but the God who knows the god father, but the God knows only four words and forever ."
Come with me. Thank you.
